---
title: 5.0.0 (unreleased)
---

# 5.0.0 (unreleased)

## Overview

- [API changes](#api-changes)
  - [Removed API (by module, alphabetically)](#api-removed)
  - [General changes](#api-general)
  - [Email](#api-email)
  - [ORM](#api-orm)
- [Dependency changes](#dependency-changes)
  - [General changes](#dep-general)
  - [TinyMCE upgraded from 4 to 6](#tinymce6)
- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [Other features](#other-features)
- [Bugfixes](#bugfixes)

## API changes {#api-changes}

This is a major release and as a result there are a number of breaking API changes. For a full list of these see [upgrading your project](/upgrading/upgrading_your_project). Some specific details about a few of them are below.

### Removed API (by module, alphabetically) {#api-removed}

#### dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental

- Removed deprecated class `DNADesign\Elemental\Search\ElementalSolrIndex`.

#### silverstripe/cms

- Removed deprecated class `SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\CMSPageHistoryController` and the javascript associated with it.

#### silverstripe/framework

- Removed deprecated constant `ManifestFileFinder::RESOURCES_DIR`
- Removed various API related to support for PHPUnit 5.7
  - Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Core\BaseKernel::getIgnoredCIConfigs()`
  - Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\Module::getCIConfig()`
  - Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Dev\TestKernel::getIgnoredCIConfigs()`
  - Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Dev\TestKernel::setIgnoredCIConfigs()`
  - Removed deprecated parameter `$ignoredCIConfigs` from the following methods:
    - `SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\ClassLoader::init()`
    - `SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\ClassManifest::init()`
    - `SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\ClassManifest::regenerate()`
    - `SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\ModuleLoader::init()`
    - `SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\ModuleManifest::init()`
    - `SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\ModuleManifest::regenerate()`
    - `SilverStripe\View\ThemeManifest::init()`
    - `SilverStripe\View\ThemeManifest::regenerate()`
  - Removed deprecated PHPUnit 5.7 version of the following classes (the PHPUnit 9 compatible version of these classes remain):
    - `SilverStripe\Dev\Constraint\SSListContains`
    - `SilverStripe\Dev\Constraint\SSListContainsOnlyMatchingItems`
    - `SilverStripe\Dev\Constraint\ViewableDataContains`
    - `SilverStripe\Dev\FunctionalTest`
    - `SilverStripe\Dev\SapphireTest`
- Removed various API in ORM related to `Iterator`
  - Removed `current()`, `key()`, `next()`, `nextRecord()`, `rewind()`, `seek()`, and `valid()` from the following classes:
    - `SilverStripe\ORM\Connect\MySQLQuery`
    - `SilverStripe\ORM\Connect\MySQLStatement`
    - `SilverStripe\ORM\Connect\PDOQuery`
    - `SilverStripe\ORM\Connect\Query`
  - Removed `SilverStripe\ORM\DataList::getGenerator()` (use `getIterator()` instead)
  - Removed the `SilverStripe\ORM\Map_Iterator` class. `SilverStripe\ORM\Map` now uses a generator instead.
- Removed various API related to `SwiftMailer`
  - Removed the following classes and interfaces
    - `SilverStripe\Control\Email\Mailer`
    - `SilverStripe\Control\Email\SwiftMailer`
    - `SilverStripe\Control\Email\SwiftPlugin`
  - Removed the following methods from `SilverStripe\Control\Email\Email`
    - Replaced with `Email::getData()`
      - `BaseURL()`
      - `IsEmail()`
    - Replaced with `Email::html()`
      - `invalidateBody()`
    - Not replaced with equivalent functionality
      - `debug()`
      - `findPlainPart()`
      - `generatePlainPartFromBody()`
      - `getFailedRecipients()`
      - `getSwiftMessage()`
      - `hasPlainPart()`
      - `mergeConfiguredEmails()`
      - `render()`
      - `setSwiftMessage()`
      - `setFailedRecipients()`
- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Core\BaseKernel::sessionEnvironment()`
- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Core\Extensible::constructExtensions()`

#### silverstripe/vendor-plugin

- Removed deprecated `Library::RESOURCES_DIR`

#### silverstripe/versioned

- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::doPublish()`
- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::doRollbackTo()`
- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::migrateVersion()`
- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::onAfterRevertToLive()`
- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::onAfterRollback()`
- Removed deprecated method `SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::publish()`

#### silverstripe/versioned-admin

- Removed deprecated class `SilverStripe\VersionedAdmin\Controllers\HistoryControllerFactory`

### General changes {#api-general}

- [SecurityAdmin](api:SilverStripe\Admin\SecurityAdmin) now extends [ModelAdmin](api:SilverStripe\Admin\ModelAdmin) instead of [LeftAndMain](api:SilverStripe\Admin\LeftAndMain) so that it can make use of standard API. This was done to remove duplicate code.
  - `MemberImportForm.php` has been removed
  - `GroupImportForm.php` has been removed
  - Previous extension hook implementations of `SecurityAdmin::updateEditForm($form)` should still work as the extension hook is called in `ModelAdmin::getEditForm()`
  - The Users, Groups and Roles tabs now no longer share the /admin/security path and instead have their own dedicated paths e.g. /admin/security/users
- `isDev` and `isTest` querystring arguments have been removed due to security concerns (see [ss-2018-005](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/ss-2018-005/)).
- The default value for the `RESOURCES_DIR` const has been changed to to "_resources"
  - The `Library::DEFAULT_RESOURCES_DIR` const in `silverstripe/vendor-plugin` has been changed to match.
  - This can still be customised using `extra.resources-dir` in your composer.json file ([see relevant docs](/developer_guides/templates/requirements/#configuring-your-project-exposed-folders))
  - If your composer.json file has its `extra.resources-dir` key set to `_resources`, you can remove that now.
  - If your composer.json file already does not have an `extra.resources-dir` key and you want to keep your resources in the `resources` directory, you can set `extra.resources-dir` to "resources".
  - If your composer.json file already does not have an `extra.resources-dir` key and you want to use the new default `_resources` directory, you may need to check that your code and templates don't assume the directory name for those resources. In your templates it is preferred to [use `$resourePath()` or `$resourceURL()`](/developer_guides/templates/requirements/#direct-resource-urls) to get paths for resources.
- `SilverStripe\Dev\FunctionalTest` is now abstract.
- `SilverStripe\Dev\MigrationTask` is now abstract.
- `SilverStripe\Dev\SapphireTest` is now abstract.
- `SilverStripe\Core\Extensible::invokeWithExtensions()` and `SilverStripe\Core\Extensible::extend()` now use the splat operator instead of having a concrete number of possible arguments.
- The constructor for `SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned` now explicitly only accepts mode as a single argument.
- The following classes have been moved from `silverstripe/cms` to `silverstripe/admin` and renamed:
  - `SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\SilverStripeNavigator` is now in silverstripe/admin as `SilverStripe\Admin\Navigator\SilverStripeNavigator`
  - `SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\SilverStripeNavigatorItem` is now in silverstripe/admin as `SilverStripe\Admin\Navigator\SilverStripeNavigatorItem`
  - `SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_Unversioned` is now in silverstripe/admin as `SilverStripe\Admin\Navigator\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_Unversioned`
- The following classes have been moved from `silverstripe/cms` to `silverstripe/versioned-admin` and renamed:
  - `SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_ArchiveLink` is now in silverstripe/versioned as `SilverStripe\VersionedAdmin\Navigator\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_ArchiveLink`
  - `SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_LiveLink` is now in silverstripe/versioned as `SilverStripe\VersionedAdmin\Navigator\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_LiveLink`
  - `SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_StageLink` is now in silverstripe/versioned as `SilverStripe\VersionedAdmin\Navigator\SilverStripeNavigatorItem_StageLink`
- Various internal controller methods have been updated to now consistently return an `SilverStripe\Control\HTTPResponse` object, rather than an undeclared `mixed` return type. These updates do not affect custom controller action methods which can still have an undeclared mixed return type.
  - In particular, the following will need to be updated if they have been subclassed and overloaded in custom code:
    - `SilverStripe\Admin\LeftAndMain::index()`
    - `SilverStripe\Admin\CMSBatchAction::run()`

### Email {#api-email}

- Email was sent in CMS 4 using [SwiftMailer](https://swiftmailer.symfony.com/docs/introduction.html), which has since [gone End Of Life](https://symfony.com/blog/the-end-of-swiftmailer). In CMS 5 this has been replaced with [symfony/mailer](https://symfony.com/doc/current/mailer.html). `symfony/mailer` is the currently maintained email package from Symfony. It's a more flexible email system that allows easier integration with third-party email providers.
- In CMS 4 the `SilverStripe\Control\Email\Email` class subclassed `SilverStripe\View\ViewableData`. In CMS 5 it now subclasses `Symfony\Component\Mime\Email`.
- `MailTransport`, which used the php native `mail()` function, is no longer officially supported in CMS 5. This is because [Symfony considers `mail()` to be insecure](https://github.com/swiftmailer/swiftmailer/issues/866#issuecomment-289291228).
- If your site has a custom email configuration e.g. SMTP configuration, this will need to be updated, as the configuration has changed from Silverstripe yml to a much more flexible and standardised [DSN string](https://symfony.com/doc/current/mailer.html#transport-setup). See [the email documentation](/developer_guides/email/) for more details. The configuration for email has changed completely - please read the updated documentation carefully.
- The following return types where changed on the following methods in [Email](api:SilverStripe\Control\Email\Email)
  - Used to return a string, now returns an nullable [Address](https://symfony.com/doc/current/mailer.html#email-addresses) object
    - `getReturnPath()`
    - `getSender()`
  - Used to return an array of strings, now returns an array of `Address` objects
    - `getFrom()`
    - `getTo()`
    - `getBCC()` - note - changed casing to `getBcc()`
    - `getCC()` - note - changed casing to `getCc()`
  - Used to return `bool`, now return `void`:
    - `send()`
    - `sendPlain()`
  - Various other methods have added strong typing to parameter and return types. Also some parameter names have changed.

### ORM {#api-orm}

- Prior to 5.0.0, when using `SQLSelect::setFrom()` or `SQLSelect::create('*', $from)` to set table or subselect definitions,
their aliases (applied by setting a string key for the array) were being ignored. This bug has been fixed - if you were working around this by manually setting the alias e.g. in a join, you can remove those workarounds now.
- [Query](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Connect\Query) now implements `IteratorAggregate` instead of `Iterator`. This means `seek()` and other iterator methods are no longer available on this class and its subclasses. Use `getIterator()` instead.
- [DataList](SilverStripe\ORM\DataList), its subclasses, [Map](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Map), and [ArrayList](SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList) all now return generators from `getIterator()`. This reduces memory usage when looping over large result sets. As a result of this, `getGenerator()` has been removed as it is no longer needed. Note that `chunkedFetch()` has not been removed, as it may still be useful for very large result sets to fetch results in smaller chunks at a time.

### Templates

- `<% loop %>` and `<% with %>` now only ever result in one new scope level. See [Template Syntax](/developer_guides/templates/syntax#up) for more details.

  For example `<% loop $Pages.Limit(5) %>{$Up.Up.Title}<% end_loop %>` previously would go up once to the `$Pages` scope (out of the `$Pages.limit(5)` scope), then up a second time to the parent scope. Now there is only the parent scope and the `$Pages.limit(5)` scope - there is no implied `$Pages` scope.

  You may need to do a search for `$Up.Up` in your templates to resolve situations where you have worked around this - with the example above, you would need to rewrite it to `$Up.Title` (removing the second `Up`).

- Numeric, boolean and null values passed to methods in templates will now preserve their type, rather than always being cast to strings. E.g. `$Foo(true)` would previously pass a string argument `'true'` to the `Foo()` method, but will now pass an actual boolean.

  You may need to check for situations where you were working around this limitation, such as checking in php code for `$param === 'false'` if you were passing `false` into some method from a template.

## Dependency changes

### General changes {#dep-general}

- `swiftmailer/swiftmailer` has been removed and replaced with `symfony/mailer`
- Various Symfony dependencies have been upgraded from 4.x to 6.x. A small number of code changes were made in silverstripe/framework to work with the symfony 6.x dependencies.
- silverstripe/graphql v3 is no longer supported. It is recommended that you ensure you are using graphl v4 in your Silverstripe CMS 4 project before upgrading to Silverstripe CMS 5. There is [documentation for the upgrade process here](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/upgrading/upgrading_to_graphql_4/).
- PHPUnit 5.7 is no longer supported. It is recommended that you ensure your tests are running with PHPUnit 9 in your Silverstripe CMS 4 project before upgrading to Silverstripe CMS 5. There is [documentation for the upgrade process here](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/upgrading/phpunit9/).

### TinyMCE upgraded from 4 to 6 {#tinymce6}

TinyMCE has been upgraded up two major versions from 4 to 6. The API for [HTMLEditorConfig](api:SilverStripe\Forms\HTMLEditor\HTMLEditorConfig) and [TinyMCEConfig](api:SilverStripe\Forms\HTMLEditor\TinyMCEConfig) haven't changed at all, but there have been some changes to plugins and options which may affect your projects. Here are some notable changes:

- The `styleselect` option for selecting a css style has changed to `styles`
- The `spellchecker` plugin is now a premium "[Spell Checker Pro](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker/)" plugin through TinyMCE cloud (though the `browser_spellcheck` options still works and is enabled by default)
- The "paste from Microsoft Word" functionality is now part of a premium "[PowerPaste](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/introduction-to-powerpaste/)" plugin through TinyMCE cloud
  - There is an [open call for maintainers](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/discussions/7487) for converting the old functionality into a new open source plugin
- The UI API has changed, which will affect any custom plugins you may be using. Notably:
  - most `addX()` functions have been moved from `editor` to `editor.ui.registry` - e.g. `editor.addButton()` is now `editor.ui.registry.addButton()`
  - `onclick` functions on buttons have been changed to `onAction`.

There were a lot more changes than just those, so you may want to also check out the following resources:

- [Docs for upgrading from 4 to 5](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/migration-from-4x/)
- [Docs for upgrading from 5 to 6](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/migration-from-5x/)
- [List of open source plugins for TinyMCE 6](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/plugins/#open-source-plugins)
- [List of toolbar buttons available for TinyMCE 6](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/available-toolbar-buttons/)
- [Create a plugin](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/creating-a-plugin/)

## Features and enhancements {#features-and-enhancements}

### Extension changes
[Extension](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) classes don't expose `protected` methods, but they _can_ be used for extension hooks. This reduces the surface of methods exposed from your extensions into `Extensible` classes. For example, you might have a `protected function updateCMSFields()` method which will be called after writing some `DataObject` - but because this method is `protected`, it _cannot_ be accessed directly from the `DataObject` instances. You can however still expose some method from the `Extension` by making it `public` - and that method _can_ be accessed directly from the `DataObject` instances.

When invoking an extension hook (e.g. via `extend()`), methods prefixed with "extend" will take precendence. i.e. if an `Extension` class has a `onAfterWrite()` method and an `extendOnAfterWrite()` method and I call `$this->extend('onAfterWrite')` - the `extendOnAfterWrite()` method on that `Extension` will be called, and `onAfterWrite()` will not.  
This empowers advanced `Extension` functionality such as [Versioned::canPublish()](api:SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::canPublish()) which invokes `$owner->extendedCan('canPublish')` but doesn't result in a cycle, because the same class also implements [extendCanPublish()](api:SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned::extendCanPublish()).

### Other new features {#other-features}

- [DataObject::get_one()][api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject::get_one()] can now be called directly from subclasses of `DataObject` without passing in a class as the first argument (e.g. `SiteTree::get_one(filter: ['Title:startsWith' => 'About'])`).
- You can now make models in vendor code previewable by [applying an `Extension`](/developer_guides/extending/extensions/) that implements [CMSPreviewable](api:SilverStripe\ORM\CMSPreviewable). See [the preview documentation](/developer_guides/customising_the_admin_interface/preview/) for more details.

## Bugfixes {#bugfixes}

- If a page which is a child of a root-level page gets archived, and then its former parent is removed, it can only be restored if `can_be_root` for that page's class is true.

This release includes a number of bug fixes to improve a broad range of areas. Check the change logs for full details of these fixes split by module. Thank you to the community members that helped contribute these fixes as part of the release!

## Environment variable changes

- `SS_MANIFESTCACHE` can no longer use the now removed symfony/cache 4.x "Simple" cache classes e.g. `Symfony\Component\Cache\Simple\PhpFilesCache`. Instead use the corresponding "Adapter" class e.g. `Symfony\Component\Cache\Adapter\PhpFilesAdapter`.
- `APP_SMTP_USERNAME` and `APP_SMTP_PASSWORD` have been removed. Use a `MAILER_DSN` environment variable instead to configure SMTP email (see [the email documentation](/developer_guides/email/) for more details).

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->
