---
title: 5.1.0 (unreleased)
---

# 5.1.0 (unreleased)

## Overview

- [Security considerations](#security-considerations)
- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [Eager loading](#eager-loading)
  - [ArrayList improvements](#arraylist-improvements)
  - [Improvement to page search performance with Elemental](#cms-search-performance)
  - [New `InheritedPermissions` option - only these members](#only-these-members)
  - [Optimised queries when filtering against IDs](#filter-by-ids)
  - [Session manager anonymize stored IP addresses](#session-manager-ip)
  - [Static publish queue related page regeneration](#staticpublishqueue-regeneration)
  - [Other new features](#other-features)
- [API changes](#api-changes)
- [Dependency changes](#dependency-changes)
- [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)

## Security considerations {#security-considerations}

This release includes several security fixes. Review the individual vulnerability disclosure for more detailed descriptions of each security fix. We highly encourage upgrading your project to include the latest security patches.

We have provided a severity rating of the vulnerabilities below based on the CVSS score. Note that the impact of each vulnerability could vary based on the specifics of each project. You can [read the severity rating definitions in the Silverstripe CMS release process](/contributing/release_process/#severity-rating).

- [CVE-2023-32302 - Members with no password can be created and bypass custom login forms](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/cve-2023-32302) Severity: Low
  When a new `Member` record was created in the cms it was possible to set a blank password. If an attacker knows the email address of the user with the blank password then they can attempt to log in using an empty password. The default member authenticator, login form and basic auth all require a non-empty password, however if a custom authentication method is used it may allow a successful login with the empty password. Starting with this release, blank passwords are no no longer allowed when members are created in the CMS. Programatically created `Member` records, such as those used in unit tests, still allow blank passwords. You may have some `Member` records in your system already which have empty passwords. To detect these, you can loop over all `Member` records with `Member::get()` and pass each record into the below method. It might be sensible to create a [`BuildTask`](api:SilverStripe\Dev\BuildTask) for this purpose.
  ```php
    private function memberHasBlankPassword(Member $member): bool
    {
        // skip default admin as this is created programatically
        if ($member->isDefaultAdmin()) {
            return false;
        }
        // return true if a blank password is valid for this member
        $authenticator = new MemberAuthenticator();
        return $authenticator->checkPassword($member, '')->isValid();
    }
  ```
  Once you have identified the records with empty passwords, it's up to you how to handle this. The most sensible way to resolve this is probably to generate a new secure password for each of these members, mark it as immediately expired, and email each affected member (assuming they have a valid email address in the system).


## Features and enhancements

### Eager loading

When looping over nested relationships the ORM is prone to the N + 1 query problem where excessive database calls are made. Eager loading has been introduced via the new [`DataList::eagerLoad()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList::eagerLoad()) method which alleviates the N + 1 problem by querying the nested relationship tables before they are needed using a single large `WHERE ID in ($ids)` SQL query instead of many `WHERE RelationID = $id` queries.

Imagine the following example where there is a `Team` model with 20 records, with a `has_many` relation "Players"

```php
// Regular ORM usage without eager loading
// This would result in 21 SQL SELECT queries, 1 for Teams and 20 for Players
$teams = Team::get();

// Using the `eagerLoad()` method to eager load data from nested models (up to 3 relations deep)
// This will result in only 2 SQL SELECT queries, 1 for Teams and 1 for Players
$teams = Team::get()->eagerLoad('Players');

foreach ($teams as $team) {
    foreach ($team->Players() as $player) {
        echo $player->FirstName;
    }
}
```

In a test setup with looping through 100 DataObjects each with 100 related DataObjects for a total of 10,000 records per test run, the following performance improvements were observed for different types of relations (eager-loading vs not eager-loading):
- HasOne - 3227% faster (0.0078s vs 0.2595s)
- HasMany - 25% faster (0.1453s vs 0.1819s)
- ManyMany - 25% faster (0.1664s vs 0.2083s)
- ManyManyThrough - 16% faster (0.6586s vs 0.7681s)

Read more about [eager loading](/developer_guides/model/relations/#eager-loading) including its limitations in the developer docs.

### ArrayList improvements

- You can now use [`SearchFilter` syntax](/developer_guides/model/searchfilters/) when calling any of the filter or exclude methods on [`ArrayList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList).
- For backwards compatibility, `ArrayList` filters are explicitly case sensitive by default. This differs from `DataList` which uses the database configuration to determine its default case sensitivity. See [search filter modifiers](/developer_guides/model/searchfilters/#modifiers) for more details including how to configure this for your project.
- [`ArrayList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList) now has an [`excludeAny()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList::excludeAny()) method, which mirrors the [`DataList::excludeAny()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList::excludeAny()) method.

### Improvement to page search performance with Elemental {#cms-search-performance}

- The CMS search has been optimised to reduce the number of database queries made when searching for pages with elemental content blocks. This has resulted in a small performance improvement. In our test environment, with 1,000 pages each with 5 content blocks we observed a 9% performance improvement. Performance will vary with your environment.
- A new opt-in behaviour is available that makes a very large difference to performance when using elemental content blocks. In testing, this behaviour was more than 100% faster (i.e. halving the response time) of the sitetree search request. The opt-in feature disables the default behaviour of rendering all content blocks for CMS search. Instead, it simply extracts the database contents of the elements from its text and html fields. There is a downside to consider which is that any related content not directly on the element will not be matched against the search query. Note this does not use the `$searchable_fields` config. To opt-in to this behaviour, use the following config:

```yml
DNADesign\Elemental\Controllers\ElementSiteTreeFilterSearch:
  render_elements: false
```

If `render_elements` is set to `false` then individual fields on elements can be excluded from search by adding them to a config array:

```yml
App\MyElement:
  fields_excluded_from_cms_search:
    - MyFieldToExclude
    - AnotherFieldToExclude
```

### New `InheritedPermissions` option - only these members {#only-these-members}

Applying the [`InheritedPermissionsExtension`](api:SilverStripe\Security\InheritedPermissionsExtension) to a `DataObject` class gives you the ability to declare that only users in certain groups can view or edit those records. This extension is applied by default to the [`File`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\File) and [`SiteTree`](SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree) classes.

A new permission has been added to [`InheritedPermissions`](api:SilverStripe\Security\InheritedPermissions), which powers that extension. The new permission (`InheritedPermissions::ONLY_THESE_MEMBERS`) allows you to define which specific `Member` records should have access to your records, regardless of which groups those members belong to.

In the CMS, this new permission is available for files and pages by setting "Who can view/edit this page/file" to "Only these users".

### Optimised queries when filtering against IDs {#filter-by-ids}

`DataList` queries filtering against a list of IDs have been optimised when all of the following criteria are met:
- the column being filtered is a [`DBPrimarykey`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBPrimaryKey) or a [`DBForiegnKey`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBForiegnKey)
- the values being filtered are all either integers or valid integer strings
- using placeholders for integer ids has been configured off, which is the default config value.

If you want to disable this optimisation you can do so with this configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\ORM\DataList:
  use_placeholders_for_integer_ids: true
```

The following performance improvements were measured in a test setup where 10,000 record IDs were passed in:
- DataList::byIDs() - 198% faster - (0.0608s vs 0.1812s)
- RelationList::foreignIDFilter()
  - HasManyList::foreignIDFilter() - 108% faster (0.1584s vs 0.3304s)
  - ManyManyList::foreignIDFilter() - 108% faster (0.1529s vs 0.3119s)
  - ManyManyThroughList::foreignIDFilter() - 27% faster (0.6901s vs (0.8766s)

### Session manager anonymize stored IP addresses {#session-manager-ip}

A configuration option has been added to [Session Manager](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/) to anonymize stored IP addresses for enhanced privacy and compliance.

If you want to anonymize stored IP addresses then use the following configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\SessionManager\Models\LoginSession:
  anonymize_ip: true
```

### Static publish queue related page regeneration {#staticpublishqueue-regeneration}

New configuration options have been added to [Static Publish Queue](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-staticpublishqueue) to force regeneration of related pages after publishing or unpublishing a related page. You can enable this with the following configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree:
  regenerate_children: recursive
  regenerate_parents: recursive
```

Available options are:
- `none`: Do not regenerate any parent or child hierarchy
- `direct`: Regenerate only one level above or below (direct parent or children, but not grandparent or grandchildren)
- `recursive`: Regenerate the entire parent or child hierarchy

Read more about new [configuration options](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-staticpublishqueue/blob/6/docs/en/basic_configuration.md#control-when-childparent-pages-are-regenerated-in-cache-actions).

### Other new features

- You can now exclude specific `DataObject` models from the check and repair step of `dev/build` - see [ORM Performance](/developer_guides/performance/orm/#skip-check-and-repair) for more information.
- You can change what `SearchFilter` the `TreeDropdownField` uses with yaml configuration - see [ORM Performance](/developer_guides/performance/orm/#treedropdownfield) for more information.
- The [`i18nTextCollector`](api:SilverStripe\i18n\TextCollection\i18nTextCollector) now collects strings for ORM properties (e.g. `$db` fields) in `DataObject` and `Extension` classes, and from themes. See [i18n - collecting text](/developer_guides/i18n/#collecting-text) for more details.
- Extensions which modify permissions for [`Group`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Group) records which return `true` will be respected, the same as when modifying permissions for any other `DataObject` record.
- The [`ListboxField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\ListboxField) now has a react component, and can be used in react-powered contexts such as within elemental blocks
- A new [`FieldsValidator`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FieldsValidator) class has been added, which simply calls [`validate()`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FormField::validate()) on all data fields in the form to ensure fields have valid values. Functionally equivalent to an empty [`RequiredFields`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\RequiredFields) validator.
- A configuration option has been added to [`GarbageCollectionService`](api:SilverStripe\SessionManager\Services\GarbageCollectionService) to limit the number of items it removes each time you run garbage collection on session data. See [garbage collection](/developer_guides/cookies_and_sessions/managing_sessions/#garbage-collection) for more details.
- In your GraphQL schemas, you can now define the pagination limit at a schema level. See [limiting pagination](/developer_guides/graphql/working_with_dataobjects/query_plugins/#limiting-pagination) in the GraphQL documentation for more details.

## API changes

### silverstripe/framework

- [`BuildTask`](api:SilverStripe\Dev\BuildTask) now has boolean `is_enabled` configuration option which has precedence over the existing `BuildTask::enabled` protected class property. The `BuildTask::enabled` property has been marked as deprecated and will be removed in CMS 6 if favour of using `is_enabled` instead.
- Passing an argument for `$limit` that is not `array|string|null` in [`SilverStripe\ORM\Search\SearchContext::getQuery()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Search\SearchContext::getQuery()) will throw a deprecation warning. In CMS 6 the parameter type will be changed from dynamic to `array|string|null`.
- You can now declare the default case sensitivity used by `SearchFilter` implementations, which power the `DataList` filtering functionality. See [search filter modifiers](/developer_guides/model/searchfilters/#modifiers) for more details.

### silverstripe/elemental-fileblock

- The [`FileBlock::getSummaryThumbnail()`](api:SilverStripe\ElementalFileBlock\Block\FileBlock::getSummaryThumbnail()) method has been marked as deprecated and will be removed in CMS 6 without equivalent functionality to replace it, as it is no longer required for the elemental block's preview summary.

## Dependency changes

- The unsupported modules `silverstripe/widgets` and `silverstripe/content-widget` were removed from `silverstripe/recipe-blog`. They were accidentally included in the `2.0.0` release of `silverstripe/recipe-blog`. The `silverstripe/widgets` and `silverstripe/content-widget` modules are CMS-5-compatible though unsupported. If your project relies on `silverstripe/widgets` or `silverstripe/content-widget`, manually update your project's `composer.json` file to explicitly require these modules.

## Bug fixes

- [`DataList::filterAny()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList::filterAny()) queries on many-many relations that use an aggregate `HAVING` clause now correctly use an `OR` conjunction rather than an incorrect `AND` conjunction.
- At some point shortly before the release of Silverstripe CMS 4.0.0, SSL support for database connections was accidentally removed. This has now been reinstated - see [Using SSL in database connections](/developer_guides/security/secure_coding#using-ssl-in-database-connections) for more information.
- The `cascade_duplicates` property was added to the [`InheritedPermissionsExtension`](api:SilverStripe\Security\InheritedPermissionsExtension) class so that now when duplicating any object that has the `InheritedPermissionsExtension` applied, the `GroupID` values in the `ViewerGroups` and `EditGroups` mapping tables will also be duplicated so that new object retains the same viewer and editor groups as the original.
- Any fields added to a model's `$summary_fields` configuration which are _not_ backed by database fields (such as method calls) will no longer be pulled through when `searchableFields()` calls back on it (i.e. because `$searchable_fields` configuration has not been explicitly declared). This means you do not need to explicitly declare `$searchable_fields` for models which should only use the summary fields to filter by.

This release includes a number of bug fixes to improve a broad range of areas. Check the change logs for full details of these fixes split by module. Thank you to the community members that helped contribute these fixes as part of the release!

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->

