# 5.1.0-rc1

## Overview

A full list of module versions included in CMS Recipe 5.1.0-rc1 is provided below. We recommend referencing recipes in your dependencies, rather than individual modules, to simplify version tracking. See [Recipes](/getting_started/).

- [Security considerations](#security-considerations)
- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [New logo](#new-logo)
  - [Eager loading](#eager-loading)
  - [ArrayList improvements](#arraylist-improvements)
  - [Improvement to page search performance with Elemental](#cms-search-performance)
  - [New `InheritedPermissions` option - only these members](#only-these-members)
  - [Optimised queries when filtering against IDs](#filter-by-ids)
  - [Session manager changes](#session-manager)
  - [Static publish queue related page regeneration](#staticpublishqueue-regeneration)
  - [Other new features](#other-new-features)
- [API changes](#api-changes)
- [Dependency changes](#dependency-changes)
- [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)

<details>
<summary>Included module versions</summary>

| Module | Version |
| ------ | ------- |
| bringyourownideas/silverstripe-composer-update-checker | 4.0.0 |
| bringyourownideas/silverstripe-maintenance | 3.0.1 |
| cwp/agency-extensions | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| cwp/starter-theme | 4.0.0 |
| cwp/watea-theme | 4.0.0 |
| dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms | 4.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe-themes/simple | 3.3.0 |
| silverstripe/admin | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/asset-admin | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/assets | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/auditor | 3.0.0 |
| silverstripe/blog | 4.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/campaign-admin | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/cms | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/config | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/contentreview | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/crontask | 3.0.2 |
| silverstripe/documentconverter | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/dynamodb | 5.0.0 |
| silverstripe/elemental-bannerblock | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/elemental-fileblock | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/environmentcheck | 3.0.1 |
| silverstripe/errorpage | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/externallinks | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/framework | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/graphql | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/gridfieldqueuedexport | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/hybridsessions | 3.0.2 |
| silverstripe/iframe | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/installer | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/ldap | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/login-forms | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/lumberjack | 3.0.2 |
| silverstripe/mfa | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/mimevalidator | 3.0.0 |
| silverstripe/realme | 5.2.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-authoring-tools | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-blog | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-cms | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-collaboration | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-content-blocks | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-core | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-form-building | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-kitchen-sink | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-plugin | 2.0.0 |
| silverstripe/recipe-reporting-tools | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/recipe-services | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/registry | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/reports | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/restfulserver | 3.0.0 |
| silverstripe/securityreport | 3.0.0 |
| silverstripe/segment-field | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/session-manager | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/sharedraftcontent | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/siteconfig | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/sitewidecontent-report | 4.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/spamprotection | 4.1.0 |
| silverstripe/staticpublishqueue | 6.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/subsites | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/tagfield | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/taxonomy | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/textextraction | 4.0.0 |
| silverstripe/totp-authenticator | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/userforms | 6.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/vendor-plugin | 2.0.1 |
| silverstripe/versioned | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/versioned-admin | 2.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/versionfeed | 3.1.0-rc1 |
| silverstripe/webauthn-authenticator | 5.1.0-rc1 |
| symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow | 6.1.0-rc1 |
| symbiote/silverstripe-gridfieldextensions | 4.0.3 |
| symbiote/silverstripe-multivaluefield | 6.0.1 |
| symbiote/silverstripe-queuedjobs | 5.0.2 |
| tractorcow/silverstripe-fluent | 7.0.0 |

</details>

## Release candidate

This version of Silverstripe CMS is a **release candidate** for an upcoming stable version, and should not be applied to production websites. We encourage developers to test this version in development / testing environments and [report any issues they encounter via GitHub](/contributing/issues_and_bugs/).

## Security considerations {#security-considerations}

This release includes a security fix. Review the vulnerability disclosure for a more detailed description of the security fix. We highly encourage upgrading your project to include the latest security patches.

We have provided a severity rating of the vulnerability below based on the CVSS score. Note that the impact of the vulnerability could vary based on the specifics of each project. You can [read the severity rating definitions in the Silverstripe CMS release process](/contributing/release_process/#severity-rating).

### Released on july 31 2023

A patch for the following security vulnerability was released on July 31 2023. You can learn more about this in the [blog post about this patch](https://www.silverstripe.org/blog/silverstripe-cms-security-patches/). Note that there was also a patch for a vulnerability that only affected Silverstripe CMS 4 released on the same day, which you can read about in that blog post.

- [CVE-2023-32302 - Members with no password can be created and bypass custom login forms](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/cve-2023-32302) Severity: None
  When a new `Member` record was created in the CMS it was possible to set a blank password. If an attacker knows the email address of the user with the blank password then they can attempt to log in using an empty password. The default member authenticator, login form and basic auth all require a non-empty password, however if a custom authentication method is used it may allow a successful login with the empty password. See the security advisory for more information including how to identify affected `Member` records.

## Features and enhancements

### New logo

Silverstripe CMS has a new logo! It will be rolling out on our web presence as we find instances of the old one and now you can see it in this release of Silverstripe CMS. A new logo provides a clearer distinction between Silverstripe (the company) and Silverstripe CMS.

### Eager loading

When looping over nested relationships the ORM is prone to the N + 1 query problem where excessive database calls are made. Eager loading has been introduced via the new [`DataList::eagerLoad()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList::eagerLoad()) method which alleviates the N + 1 problem by querying the nested relationship tables before they are needed using a single large `WHERE ID in ($ids)` SQL query instead of many `WHERE RelationID = $id` queries.

Imagine the following example where there is a `Team` model with 20 records, with a `has_many` relation "Players"

```php
// Regular ORM usage without eager loading
// This would result in 21 SQL SELECT queries, 1 for Teams and 20 for Players
$teams = Team::get();

// Using the `eagerLoad()` method to eager load data from nested models (up to 3 relations deep)
// This will result in only 2 SQL SELECT queries, 1 for Teams and 1 for Players
$teams = Team::get()->eagerLoad('Players');

foreach ($teams as $team) {
    foreach ($team->Players() as $player) {
        echo $player->FirstName;
    }
}
```

In a test setup with looping through 100 DataObjects each with 100 related DataObjects for a total of 10,000 records per test run, the following performance improvements were observed for different types of relations (eager-loading vs not eager-loading):

- HasOne - 3227% faster (0.0078s vs 0.2595s)
- HasMany - 25% faster (0.1453s vs 0.1819s)
- ManyMany - 25% faster (0.1664s vs 0.2083s)
- ManyManyThrough - 16% faster (0.6586s vs 0.7681s)

Note that those observations were made using MySQL.

Read more about [eager loading](/developer_guides/model/relations/#eager-loading) including its limitations in the developer docs.

### `ArrayList` improvements {#arraylist-improvements}

#### `ArrayList` now supports `SearchFilter` syntax for filtering {#arraylist-improvements-searchfilter}

You can now use [`SearchFilter` syntax](/developer_guides/model/searchfilters/) when calling any of the filter or exclude methods on [`ArrayList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList). For example:

```php
use SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList;

$list = ArrayList::create([
    [
        'Title' => 'Silverstripe CMS is awesome',
    ],
    [
        'Title' => 'ArrayList is now more powerful than ever',
    ],
]);

// This will contain only the item with the title "Silverstripe CMS is awesome"
$filteredList = $list->filter('Title:PartialMatch', 'CMS');
```

For backwards compatibility, `ArrayList` filters are explicitly case sensitive by default. This differs from `DataList` which uses the database configuration to determine its default case sensitivity. See [search filter modifiers](/developer_guides/model/searchfilters/#modifiers) for more details including how to configure this for your project.

#### New `ArrayList::excludeAny()` method {#arraylist-improvements-excludeany}

[`ArrayList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList) now has an [`excludeAny()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList::excludeAny()) method, which mirrors the [`DataList::excludeAny()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList::excludeAny()) method.

### Improvement to page search performance with elemental {#cms-search-performance}

- The CMS search has been optimised to reduce the number of database queries made when searching for pages with elemental content blocks. This has resulted in a small performance improvement. In our test environment, with 1,000 pages each with 5 content blocks we observed a 9% performance improvement using MySQL. Performance will vary with your environment.
- A new opt-in behaviour is available that makes a very large difference to performance when using elemental content blocks. In testing, this behaviour was more than 100% faster (i.e. halving the response time) of the sitetree search request. The opt-in feature disables the default behaviour of rendering all content blocks for CMS search. Instead, it simply extracts the database contents of the elements from its text and html fields. There is a downside to consider which is that any related content not directly on the element will not be matched against the search query. Note this does not use the `$searchable_fields` config. To opt-in to this behaviour, use the following config:

```yml
DNADesign\Elemental\Controllers\ElementSiteTreeFilterSearch:
  render_elements: false
```

If `render_elements` is set to `false` then individual fields on elements can be excluded from search by adding them to a config array:

```yml
App\MyElement:
  fields_excluded_from_cms_search:
    - MyFieldToExclude
    - AnotherFieldToExclude
```

### New `InheritedPermissions` option - only these members {#only-these-members}

Applying the [`InheritedPermissionsExtension`](api:SilverStripe\Security\InheritedPermissionsExtension) to a `DataObject` class gives you the ability to declare that only users in certain groups can view or edit those records. This extension is applied by default to the [`File`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\File) and [`SiteTree`](SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree) classes.

A new permission has been added to [`InheritedPermissions`](api:SilverStripe\Security\InheritedPermissions), which powers that extension. The new permission (`InheritedPermissions::ONLY_THESE_MEMBERS`) allows you to define which specific `Member` records should have access to your records, regardless of which groups those members belong to.

In the CMS, this new permission is available for files and pages by setting "Who can view/edit this page/file" to "Only these users".

### Optimised queries when filtering against iDs {#filter-by-ids}

`DataList` queries filtering against a list of IDs have been optimised when all of the following criteria are met:

- the column being filtered is a [`DBPrimarykey`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBPrimaryKey) or a [`DBForiegnKey`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBForiegnKey)
- the values being filtered are all either integers or valid integer strings
- using placeholders for integer ids has been configured off, which is the default config value.

If you want to disable this optimisation you can do so with this configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\ORM\DataList:
  use_placeholders_for_integer_ids: true
```

The following performance improvements were measured in a test setup where 10,000 record IDs were passed in:

- DataList::byIDs() - 198% faster - (0.0608s vs 0.1812s)
- RelationList::foreignIDFilter()
  - HasManyList::foreignIDFilter() - 108% faster (0.1584s vs 0.3304s)
  - ManyManyList::foreignIDFilter() - 108% faster (0.1529s vs 0.3119s)
  - ManyManyThroughList::foreignIDFilter() - 27% faster (0.6901s vs 0.8766s)

Note that those observations were made using MySQL.

### Session manager changes {#session-manager}

#### Anonymize stored IP addresses {#session-manager-ip}

A configuration option has been added to [Session Manager](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/) to anonymize stored IP addresses for enhanced privacy and compliance.

If you want to anonymize stored IP addresses then use the following configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\SessionManager\Models\LoginSession:
  anonymize_ip: true
```

#### `GarbageCollectionService` can remove data in batches {#session-manager-gc}

A configuration option has been added to [`GarbageCollectionService`](api:SilverStripe\SessionManager\Services\GarbageCollectionService) to limit the number of items it removes each time you run garbage collection on session data. It will not be limited by default but you can optionally limit the number of items it will remove in a single run by setting the following YAML configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\SessionManager\Services\GarbageCollectionService:
  batch_remove_limit: 1000
```

See [garbage collection](/developer_guides/cookies_and_sessions/managing_sessions/#garbage-collection) for more details.

#### Threshold for updating `LastAccessed` in `LoginSession` {#session-manager-last-accessed}

[`LoginSession`](api:SilverStripe\SessionManager\Models\LoginSession) used to write to the database on every request to update the `LastAccessed` field for the logged in user. This adds a bit of overhead to every request that adds up.

A timed threshold (with a default of 300 seconds, or 5 minutes) is now used. The `LastAccessed` value will only be updated and written to the database if the last time the user made a request to the server was longer than this threshold. You can change the threshold to meet the requirements of your auditing with the following YAML configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\SessionManager\Models\LoginSession:
  last_accessed_threshold: 150
```

### Static publish queue related page regeneration {#staticpublishqueue-regeneration}

New configuration options have been added to [Static Publish Queue](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-staticpublishqueue) to force regeneration of related pages after publishing or unpublishing a related page. You can enable this with the following configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree:
  regenerate_children: recursive
  regenerate_parents: recursive
```

Available options are:

- `none`: Do not regenerate any parent or child hierarchy
- `direct`: Regenerate only one level above or below (direct parent or children, but not grandparent or grandchildren)
- `recursive`: Regenerate the entire parent or child hierarchy

Read more about new [configuration options](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-staticpublishqueue/blob/6/docs/en/basic_configuration.md#control-when-childparent-pages-are-regenerated-in-cache-actions).

### Other new features

- You can now exclude specific `DataObject` models from the check and repair step of `dev/build` - see [ORM Performance](/developer_guides/performance/orm/#skip-check-and-repair) for more information.
- You can change what `SearchFilter` the `TreeDropdownField` uses with YAML configuration - see [ORM Performance](/developer_guides/performance/orm/#treedropdownfield) for more information.
- The [`i18nTextCollector`](api:SilverStripe\i18n\TextCollection\i18nTextCollector) now collects strings for ORM properties (e.g. `$db` fields) in `DataObject` and `Extension` classes, and from themes. See [i18n - collecting text](/developer_guides/i18n/#collecting-text) for more details.
- Extensions which modify permissions for [`Group`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Group) records which return `true` will be respected, the same as when modifying permissions for any other `DataObject` record.
- The [`ListboxField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\ListboxField) now has a react component, and can be used in react-powered contexts such as within elemental blocks
- A new [`FieldsValidator`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FieldsValidator) class has been added, which simply calls [`validate()`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FormField::validate()) on all data fields in the form to ensure fields have valid values. Functionally equivalent to an empty [`RequiredFields`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\RequiredFields) validator.
- In your GraphQL schemas, you can now define the pagination limit at a schema level. See [limiting pagination](/developer_guides/graphql/working_with_dataobjects/query_plugins/#limiting-pagination) in the GraphQL documentation for more details.

## API changes

### `silverstripe/framework`

- [`BuildTask`](api:SilverStripe\Dev\BuildTask) now has boolean `is_enabled` configuration option which has precedence over the existing `BuildTask::enabled` protected class property. The `BuildTask::enabled` property has been marked as deprecated and will be removed in CMS 6 if favour of using `is_enabled` instead.
- Passing an argument for `$limit` that is not `array|string|null` in [`SilverStripe\ORM\Search\SearchContext::getQuery()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Search\SearchContext::getQuery()) will throw a deprecation warning. In CMS 6 the parameter type will be changed from dynamic to `array|string|null`.
- You can now declare the default case sensitivity used by `SearchFilter` implementations, which power the `DataList` filtering functionality. See [search filter modifiers](/developer_guides/model/searchfilters/#modifiers) for more details.

### `silverstripe/elemental-fileblock`

- The [`FileBlock::getSummaryThumbnail()`](api:SilverStripe\ElementalFileBlock\Block\FileBlock::getSummaryThumbnail()) method has been marked as deprecated and will be removed in CMS 6 without equivalent functionality to replace it, as it is no longer required for the elemental block's preview summary.

## Dependency changes

- The unsupported modules `silverstripe/widgets` and `silverstripe/content-widget` were removed from `silverstripe/recipe-blog`. They were accidentally included in the `2.0.0` release of `silverstripe/recipe-blog`. The `silverstripe/widgets` and `silverstripe/content-widget` modules are CMS-5-compatible though unsupported. If your project relies on `silverstripe/widgets` or `silverstripe/content-widget`, manually update your project's `composer.json` file to explicitly require these modules.

## Bug fixes

- [`DataList::filterAny()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList::filterAny()) queries on many-many relations that use an aggregate `HAVING` clause now correctly use an `OR` conjunction rather than an incorrect `AND` conjunction.
- At some point shortly before the release of Silverstripe CMS 4.0.0, SSL support for database connections was accidentally removed. This has now been reinstated - see [Using SSL in database connections](/developer_guides/security/secure_coding#using-ssl-in-database-connections) for more information.
- The `cascade_duplicates` property was added to the [`InheritedPermissionsExtension`](api:SilverStripe\Security\InheritedPermissionsExtension) class so that now when duplicating any object that has the `InheritedPermissionsExtension` applied, the `GroupID` values in the `ViewerGroups` and `EditGroups` mapping tables will also be duplicated so that new object retains the same viewer and editor groups as the original.
- Any fields added to a model's `$summary_fields` configuration which are *not* backed by database fields (such as method calls) will no longer be pulled through when `searchableFields()` calls back on it (i.e. because `$searchable_fields` configuration has not been explicitly declared). This means you do not need to explicitly declare `$searchable_fields` for models which should only use the summary fields to filter by.
- The [Storybook pattern library](https://silverstripe.github.io/silverstripe-pattern-lib/) for Silverstripe CMS wasn't working when we released Silverstripe CMS 5.0.0, but that has now been fixed.

This release includes a number of bug fixes to improve a broad range of areas. Check the change logs for full details of these fixes split by module. Thank you to the community members that helped contribute these fixes as part of the release!

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable proper-names enhanced-proper-names -->
## Change log

### Security

- silverstripe/framework (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-05-12 [7b21b38ac](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7b21b38ac4532d06565dfcefad50540ebd2b50f4) Require password field to be non-empty (Steve Boyd) - See [cve-2023-32302](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/cve-2023-32302)

- silverstripe/developer-docs (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-05-15 [b9bdbbbf](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/b9bdbbbf645a893d7686906abcdb3630b5b6344c) Require password field to be non-empty (Steve Boyd) - See [cve-2023-32302](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/cve-2023-32302)

### Features and enhancements {#changelog-enhancements}

- silverstripe/installer (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-18 [fc510dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-installer/commit/fc510dd3e8c7915ad8e6dc73f49a88f7752ab06b) Change favicon to reflect new logo (Maxime Rainville)

- silverstripe/assets (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [53e8331](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/53e8331750008be7f9a9ec0caed05f62cdcbdaa1) Update translations (#570) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-17 [a67cc24](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/a67cc24cc2f8448dd9120ef7bbd9d46a090d8b06) Update translations (#569) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-15 [47fa6c6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/47fa6c648163ad40f6ad585fde98fc132c37a2e9) add check for specific user inherited permission (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-06-14 [f83706e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/f83706eb1f864c74357f9b1a5405a8dab3a5054f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [05732c0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/05732c00ff0b1bd662db8feaef4f41b979280951) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [7c0cc54](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/7c0cc54028ac818479e4d07b028617edc8b9dc33) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/framework (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-29 [d01ae8029](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d01ae8029e00aa3f836bbd22bfccb22676ef87d2) Update logo (#10922) (Maxime Rainville)
  - 2023-08-29 [b4463d905](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/b4463d90509fc1602714f949fbf7589a8b1fbf72) Enable ArrayList and EagerLoadedList to use search filters (#10925) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-21 [3e72f5e69](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/3e72f5e6946b00301f326cee2f6b63fece0e2081) Update translations (#10920) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-17 [8745890d8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/8745890d842b488d4ce999efcd297630c82dbce8) Update translations (#10918) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-08 [358cbc9ee](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/358cbc9ee56ff70cd50342746082ff07c7c2bf0b) Do not use placeholders by default for foreignIDFilter() (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-07 [5a52484d8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/5a52484d881e2fedeb344f1461c3208086afc9e2) Add FieldsValidator to ensure fields get validated (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-03 [ae49e134a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ae49e134a9ee7282c991b8ea3dc4ffd0f4d7f051) Use custom list for eagerloaded relations (#10869) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-25 [672396880](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/672396880d1d7d9555e8b6aa787fcfded0750549) Do not use placeholders for int ID filters (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-21 [93acba053](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/93acba053552006f7001192fc25cd895500fdda2) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-05 [85e503d01](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/85e503d0125d0f975a05f8be1b4806d935261a23) Refactor eagerloading fetch into separate methods (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-04 [6fa71bbf5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/6fa71bbf513fc7cafbfceb16b3c6fbcd8ef5cb52) avoid multiple calls to records-&gt;count() In PermissionCheckboxSetField (#10839) (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-28 [e1d10a0b4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/e1d10a0b4ce55f8d62d931d9ace9f8d2179e1c9a) ListboxField react field schema (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-06-27 [46d793048](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/46d7930489d6f27f5dc3157530c0e8938050d843) Cache DataObject::getSchema() (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-27 [ed0730370](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ed07303703842032b01602d040c7fafd49435be2) Cache $item-&gt;ID for eager loading (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [2ea66922c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/2ea66922cdf8026048e569e0af8b4008468351e3) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [34019426d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/34019426dd82f3c2eace241e7cef9152d8d8653e) add OnlyTheseMembers Inherited Permission type (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-06-14 [76e9b78b0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/76e9b78b0c2a8782cc86f2964d9220752bce50e8) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-07 [246735101](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/246735101a52ad6091cc66daa0d55e078dd6e6f6) ORM eager loading (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [6b49b6cdb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/6b49b6cdb68d70d00f9fe0bce038095db539e577) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-04-04 [2c874a1e9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/2c874a1e945e4c017dcb44b571491b9b7d3f6cc7) Exclude a list of models for checking and repairs (#10746) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-03-26 [280354df0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/280354df08f3a28e487ede1f58b9bdc14b7de7ae) Allow different search filters on TreeDropdownField (elliot sawyer)

- silverstripe/admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-05 [4dd12690](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/4dd1269029d8e614b55cb9bdaa7cb03d1af20058) Do not show loading spinner when there was a loading error (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-09-04 [105b5ce5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/105b5ce52bee19f19e04e5f697559039432bcd3d) Allow disabling of help_links (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-21 [f5e11e41](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/f5e11e41ace678a69d71d8bdd99afd5d2c1f6030) Update translations (#1552) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-17 [66242e7a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/66242e7a7530dbddd5dc679775e34a81306448a6) Update translations (#1550) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-28 [e03bc329](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/e03bc329f7d79ae8ce38aee6dea46ae865c215db) add ListboxField react component (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-06-23 [4f2c5e26](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/4f2c5e263bb7009eecfdbd1b8de27e2a02300a36) hide permission fields we arent using (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-06-19 [a4729ba0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/a4729ba0b0bdc3e1eebef5fd45a813a59b54300a) Update JS Translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [ae0952b1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/ae0952b1985f5588c9afb8ef4b1d72e5642fae0c) Storybook Doc Blocks (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-14 [bae6d7a1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/bae6d7a1054dd4bf3f8713236d21a5a57dc095f8) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [868b2655](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/868b2655b74bbae6111fc676fd3a3d76d218fd13) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2021-08-31 [a802828f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/a802828f7bb2705fe9f49fd572dca3c3d84ee9c5) Pass form validation result to client (Steve Boyd)
  - 2020-04-25 [b001d487](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/b001d487118801ceaec388a0c22ec42840ce4e80) Make CMSProfileController use required_permission_codes (mattclegg)

- silverstripe/asset-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [6c318880](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/6c3188805ad13050d15a3c6fa03c05b429bee14c) Update translations (#1386) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-08 [fa0fef24](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/fa0fef240dc04955e25d90709d8ad8c57097f7d3) Use archive text when file archiving is enabled (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-15 [d48f81d5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/d48f81d57bbee151b2529dade7176113b2141b2f) update CMS fields to allow user-specific permissions (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-06-14 [d278be60](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/d278be605883144d3260c53cd2f6fe806b9f2673) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [be112c2e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/be112c2e6276ad04651b1c03d1168af42a75d647) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-13 [71a622d8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/71a622d8453cc99f93a17e6834d90b68fa449e6c) Storybook Doc Blocks (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/campaign-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [d62c2c3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/d62c2c3fa243be56c0904a2f9f6564fb86d7caea) Update translations (#276) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [3b5b372](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/3b5b372274848c882c40a354c14bb01b4518d6d5) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [42e5db4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/42e5db44a581b71f419b156c87594dbec6bd7d0f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/versioned-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [7b61f6a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned-admin/commit/7b61f6a3e71c053fa051aa913327637fb1358721) Update translations (#304) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-07 [addd992](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned-admin/commit/addd992bc242d3b0817797920508eb1f46e16466) Allow File.keep_archived_assets to show files archive tab (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [afcf911](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned-admin/commit/afcf911059ccb0965b026c63451153f3050fec7c) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [33880e7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned-admin/commit/33880e7658290fb0c1c82bdb993182fd27a3d0f1) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/cms (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [14037a77](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/14037a776fb10f04b78a7e5de3f5fa9af5680d19) Update translations (#2874) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-17 [6decb069](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/6decb06909badbb8ab47ef9f5f17e929a6173882) Update translations (#2873) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-15 [14eb767c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/14eb767c9c7b83146c70cbd075288506c94a1e6e) update SiteTree permissions in CMS (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-06-14 [d9b6f7ac](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/d9b6f7acadedb0ff82015ecd0ebb02085704042c) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [cdd6e54f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/cdd6e54fce6fa4ea3f638da038758a47db15ffbc) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [204ccd20](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/204ccd20b7df8d68fce4d1e13c4e7fbcec9d3bd3) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/errorpage (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [c0062cc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-errorpage/commit/c0062cc391b9d3e562c8263ce30bbe8b5ee239ad) Update translations (#87) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [4225210](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-errorpage/commit/42252106e8e51fa7e467675abbe7764ff0c2f5c0) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [6fb1a24](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-errorpage/commit/6fb1a24e9c6c9c36b4fd715f3da951231b11bc6c) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/reports (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [03869a75](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-reports/commit/03869a7535bded903e23a0f1618af1480cb4a1e8) Update translations (#167) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [f6aee12f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-reports/commit/f6aee12f07f506e370cb7ae3aa159476da46d35a) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [d2a5d6ea](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-reports/commit/d2a5d6ea535b866182534f5f438efaa17cdd44c3) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/siteconfig (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [bd825dce](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-siteconfig/commit/bd825dce7dc88d87b97d5fdbcc92c12f1ab6fd74) Update translations (#143) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [e51a7aa8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-siteconfig/commit/e51a7aa8be33d5481f2ba5a51687fce9679ca836) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [014a428e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-siteconfig/commit/014a428e9d82dcb5449e4989f7de3ec4cb529df1) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/versioned (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [302aa4c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/302aa4c36a9383caa4d079e3f589315dc78bacf6) Update translations (#411) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [afb4517](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/afb4517a9673194dd82ba5bd4868367e678dfd77) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [5bae587](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/5bae5877f879adfe104b14b51832148afb7056cb) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/graphql (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-27 [d8435c5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/d8435c5f1c90e8e7ff50b5a0a22fcb68995b74b9) Enable storing GraphQL schema in `silverstripe-cache/` (#534) (Guy Sartorelli)

- silverstripe/session-manager (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [845aa34](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/845aa3400679b94a93e23178450e0f523fbfb3a4) Update translations (#166) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-16 [c82efd9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/c82efd989b83e8f2f23fa02b6e193b153d6018ef) Don&apos;t update LastAccessed if some threshold hasn&apos;t been reached (#156) (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [d31ab95](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/d31ab95d30489efcea065a8d282a41bd506490ca) Add option to anonymize ip requests (#161) (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-07-04 [ad7265d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/ad7265d6525e15d8cd592dbac6bd7e77fb5e2295) get cached Member in LoginSession (#152) (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-07-04 [c7a59f2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/c7a59f29c7a3d67f05fd0264e5d46d583e2f21b0) get cached Member in SessionManagerField (#151) (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-14 [cb90e70](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/cb90e70e850d7bffb75e4144f6bbca54fb4973b9) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [f9d423e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/f9d423e9bf043b1b1c79fb29e70832c3e610a194) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-13 [65d74c9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/65d74c95f0be810a697ae39d4aac8abf219d4f6f) Storybook Doc Blocks (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/login-forms (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-18 [8aeb6e9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-login-forms/commit/8aeb6e9280c7d6c673026d68ec0b4c7f36b44b10) Include new logo (Maxime Rainville)

- silverstripe/documentconverter (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [729c9eb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-documentconverter/commit/729c9ebf47fcbea9f7ca3f850ec4bbc592d102b2) Update translations (#56) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [f0c5641](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-documentconverter/commit/f0c5641956ca97c80283418a8d9f88a23e5b2b04) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [d12916b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-documentconverter/commit/d12916b8cd9b259bbfe5e365a11dbf5b7581b1e5) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/iframe (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [9890370](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-iframe/commit/98903708cd2aecc1b323489b60502631a2eff67e) Update translations (#74) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [ef07ff3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-iframe/commit/ef07ff3a568f1fcd8ac8815a8e1e7adbf49c60f9) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [7070529](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-iframe/commit/70705292023a6f37297c39f752f0a55e92692f79) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/tagfield (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-13 [f667020](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-tagfield/commit/f6670206780db4525e8709ec3d6cc01ef55ecda5) Storybook Doc Blocks (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/taxonomy (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [b76ce97](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-taxonomy/commit/b76ce9782f8096a8cc6795359c7be709cfcba638) Update translations (#95) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [050cb00](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-taxonomy/commit/050cb006804a070efde629dbe807e63e1722eef0) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [6baddb9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-taxonomy/commit/6baddb9af915964fba932b23424810defdd490a3) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/blog (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [9d3a398](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/9d3a398901cb9207a707591c7342dd90845d444f) Update translations (#723) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-17 [e9390c3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/e9390c3525141ae8fb9769db50732a702c032525) Update translations (#722) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [cf4452f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/cf4452f5e06b0df2e1604a07b184642df0ad14e1) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [7cbeb90](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/7cbeb902809278113ca0e1269d8cd0ec14eb3083) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [09e79fd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/09e79fd8a87325dcd9bb624d0a1647706553f756) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/spamprotection (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0)
  - 2023-08-21 [19603c3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-spamprotection/commit/19603c31bc452fb4264e80b1bbcb7059a408dbcf) Update translations (#101) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [afbcf59](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-spamprotection/commit/afbcf59ec4decaa054f78681026be654812b29bb) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [e08ac10](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-spamprotection/commit/e08ac1065811db19d8183ab5556f68e0ff87c8d8) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/contentreview (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [20d61d7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-contentreview/commit/20d61d7d87582a919350974be2d4257838ef7a56) Update translations (#208) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [b6e00e9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-contentreview/commit/b6e00e9528eb35ba06862a0a798757605109f420) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [91fa889](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-contentreview/commit/91fa889d8d935b9ccbff07afc75b5e8c24789af0) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/sharedraftcontent (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [bfeb2bd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/bfeb2bdc4e5c3f485e70af4179438353c436e512) Update translations (#207) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-18 [f1a5836](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/f1a58367c02280b3326f17c5f9b2beaa96a27c29) Use new logo (Maxime Rainville)
  - 2023-06-14 [bfc5909](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/bfc5909cce70b2aaf00ccedb4eeea3270c53934f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [b336507](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/b336507f474cbd3e110af64fc4ba28d27b92cc51) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [d13d77d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/d13d77df1d2be288cbabaac676203cb23b52ac3e) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [af03d8d](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/af03d8d0d154447e7c76a6f617da16523a4cf777) Update translations (#501) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-17 [09e3019](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/09e3019be8ce050cab46297da9ab07c0729bcea1) Update translations (#500) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [e9fd460](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/e9fd460183abb01489657a8477db6163ab818851) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [0e7caa8](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/0e7caa8eace59dfb3c9630afb29e671158d8d135) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/userforms (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [c0eb6d6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/c0eb6d61e8d6595e5a1cca90fcdf68b190bbeb15) Update translations (#1231) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [c562d13](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/c562d138dfdc3a0de20af4d23089aba6fece626d) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [95d3cee](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/95d3ceec3be741cbaf30b6b183d5a0057404e546) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [ae34301](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/ae34301f6a59168f3a74c86bf18a24ad3529c0b7) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/externallinks (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [20c2231](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-externallinks/commit/20c2231bff459bf3a58eb919bdf2c0c86093bf23) Update translations (#106) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [2560888](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-externallinks/commit/2560888df057645b7be08dd889336785a497057f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [61b99e8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-externallinks/commit/61b99e881cce49806856b75ee69df51d95e6b721) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/sitewidecontent-report (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [720336d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sitewidecontent-report/commit/720336dd78c0242a6ea79ec8fb22c32a00fc4fa8) Update translations (#70) (Guy Sartorelli)

- bringyourownideas/silverstripe-maintenance (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.0.1)
  - 2023-06-14 [17cd10c](https://github.com/bringyourownideas/silverstripe-maintenance/commit/17cd10cc627102f7505fcec507e0dc154e27c25a) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/versionfeed (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [d082606](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versionfeed/commit/d082606ded9c73b98fc858c66c634952a6e68d6e) Update translations (#88) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [b11db96](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versionfeed/commit/b11db96d7a93d28dc9a0852262ff3ce496c3754f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [2450e85](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versionfeed/commit/2450e85c874f29d9f2558e14b0578b08ba4fa842) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [4b19889](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/4b19889771a5846ce53054f7077cfe354a9d181b) Update translations (#1083) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-04 [46fd44a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/46fd44ad07fd1f8443388e0b3ac39cd7c58b6091) Optimise site search (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [d6c0bbf](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/d6c0bbf4f615cf6071b6bb33b942f31937322f6f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [34d9faf](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/34d9faff47db47d6de03ba68ffd0ed8491090b5e) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-03-13 [ddc3c32](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/ddc3c32878f5bbdf74a74d16b058548fbae04c09) Include summary in elemental area by default (#948) (Michael van Schaik)

- silverstripe/elemental-fileblock (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-14 [d7ffcd8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-fileblock/commit/d7ffcd829fea3eea29f040c97c533f81a60fe3df) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [8c15457](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-fileblock/commit/8c154578d73157f23c3e4797fa08fe89c65e7c44) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/elemental-bannerblock (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-14 [cf0fcf6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-bannerblock/commit/cf0fcf656f223cf5244b2a5090b662d45cf749c5) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [060b065](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-bannerblock/commit/060b065bd727a29fc9229f45ab4c6f93888da138) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/hybridsessions (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.0.2)
  - 2023-08-18 [3df783e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-hybridsessions/commit/3df783e81b7c2a863f3c4afdedcbba004ed053b8) Update translations (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-30 [87087ff](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-hybridsessions/commit/87087ffae20037ff61415d7ab868e162ff829063) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/registry (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [a2b05fa](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-registry/commit/a2b05faf3575c5fa89399f2ee705deb5ac562685) Update translations (#87) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [6c319fc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-registry/commit/6c319fc0449de538f566fdf5c58d7a8da64bd516) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [55a748f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-registry/commit/55a748fec1874925e943dae1a88c5b0e1c0779be) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/totp-authenticator (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [736c2ad](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-totp-authenticator/commit/736c2ad7c332bbeae1b9a21c95f54cd3d5cdbfbf) Update translations (#133) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [9ea2fa1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-totp-authenticator/commit/9ea2fa1cf2ee7c4066695575c8dc259762116fef) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/mfa (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-15 [febbf9d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-mfa/commit/febbf9d8977ba6e818bad4248bc67af085b1480c) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [48277a9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-mfa/commit/48277a9cc0524192c255d2c43516959b159a1ab8) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/crontask (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.0.2)
  - 2023-08-21 [9a381d0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-crontask/commit/9a381d0288129754b10f1d8755963b5650a5275a) Update translations (#81) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-30 [8764d5d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-crontask/commit/8764d5dbc9830a6dad6a1d83a9260313ce950fc7) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/gridfieldqueuedexport (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [488ee05](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-gridfieldqueuedexport/commit/488ee052f8e2a6e6dcce27aa5676bf8f379b681a) Update translations (#88) (Guy Sartorelli)

- silverstripe/ldap (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [59d639a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-ldap/commit/59d639aaa0f047bb7b849ae8c972a3930919e81e) Update translations (#60) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [30b22b8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-ldap/commit/30b22b8724572531d8ae4730bd4a1dbc8a25485b) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [d5c18e0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-ldap/commit/d5c18e0fc820098976f36c0b9987873acd38f201) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/realme (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.2.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [d84abc3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/d84abc3a771625dff3943a064910029f835cc523) Update translations (#118) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-26 [5dfdf4f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/5dfdf4f43fff543df16bb1e72024f8add7697feb) Update styles to match new RealME branding (#113) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [d14d24b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/d14d24bb3e68f477750ab1e90d6d033af7824326) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [193486d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/193486d8615e5334d7d2dbdc98b77920ab1c4b87) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [3cdc32f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/3cdc32f371cb4cf234a6aff69285d54bc409564f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/webauthn-authenticator (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-14 [4e6b717](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-webauthn-authenticator/commit/4e6b7172868e05a982cfbda6c944e11a46c31d98) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/subsites (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [178b521](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/178b521c54c4f8bc8ba99cfcc84c9b9dd54c6670) Update translations (#534) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [c847f3e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/c847f3e1d84b88b46f2c2f145db509a4590e5e9a) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [6a8b57b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/6a8b57b72e41caf9ea71471aa7fbf224db4ba42f) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/lumberjack (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.0.2)
  - 2023-08-21 [bd35b14](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-lumberjack/commit/bd35b1412d175f34b7cad6b3f8c9ee130081b1f4) Update translations (#131) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-30 [f26bb8c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-lumberjack/commit/f26bb8c0108ffbe9c9d6ad8bbe50943ab994a0bd) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- cwp/agency-extensions (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [0f68e50](https://github.com/silverstripe/cwp-agencyextensions/commit/0f68e50c3f083c8f84359961eedeb0781322d876) Update translations (#100) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [36bdf4e](https://github.com/silverstripe/cwp-agencyextensions/commit/36bdf4e9511ce789706ef323bec2e21c6d28cf73) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [0eb21e7](https://github.com/silverstripe/cwp-agencyextensions/commit/0eb21e75071045fb7f86e8867f5179c67b079e08) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [1f403f3](https://github.com/silverstripe/cwp-agencyextensions/commit/1f403f315797481561b0bdae28b92d46527d5298) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [9ab97a3](https://github.com/dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms/commit/9ab97a3bd01272e169713e0d6232223c148a254d) Update translations (#79) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [f9cce50](https://github.com/dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms/commit/f9cce50d8c2a241daaa42e566368ad1492d8a007) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [5dc8b52](https://github.com/dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms/commit/5dc8b523cf25ce25d687b8b8182ba034dbee0ff9) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [4b6191e](https://github.com/dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms/commit/4b6191ee807d9e3336f0670d15bcbed071a3d5c8) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- symbiote/silverstripe-gridfieldextensions (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.0.3)
  - 2023-08-21 [1e5a1e8](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-gridfieldextensions/commit/1e5a1e8056a7f82bb3d3c7442e5036c83d7103a8) Update translations (#373) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [665d231](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-gridfieldextensions/commit/665d23170b461f78af13263ab2d61f4cacdaab4c) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-30 [89a7301](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-gridfieldextensions/commit/89a7301b670b8b1ddbfd2a9b91a6d9051144ff84) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

- symbiote/silverstripe-queuedjobs (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.0.2)
  - 2023-08-21 [6e0c8df](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-queuedjobs/commit/6e0c8dfca578da0ede3b0f5a5e5a83896f74a665) Update translations (#410) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-14 [083763e](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-queuedjobs/commit/083763e6467adc01a96857a37d57862089b44f48) Update translations (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [bed9514](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-queuedjobs/commit/bed951439d1c68f990c6f72cd939be339da8f2a7) Update translations (Steve Boyd)

### Bugfixes

- silverstripe/installer (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-04 [ab3d7bc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-installer/commit/ab3d7bc206a7f71c5533053c5eb7aec372130d94) Fix link to V5 Docs (minimalic)

- silverstripe/assets (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-15 [4c04531](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/4c0453128d58c6647dcc567e793d9cb316333454) Ensure filenames are not duplicated when moving (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-10 [16ab3fa](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/16ab3fae648a5b7d36282666f8500487a94cb3a3) Double encoding image shortcode attributes (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-08-07 [8597eae](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/8597eae2efac7df9cbe2b121cdf7bc26a7e4eff9) Fix for vips intervention image backend (#539) (Niklas Forsdahl)
  - 2023-08-07 [d560dd4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/d560dd4c76f0e72a2097488564c2a393b2e69f12) Multi HTML entities in image shortcodes (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-11 [7f8057e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/7f8057ea9af1a11fc8e4dbc3e24fdae84f97dc8b)  (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-11 [69cc7ed](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/69cc7edae15165ed5051d7587ac5219f84ec8e58)  (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-11 [bd9ebb7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/bd9ebb72a0fb91ed2ca3d977f5b88efd6d0f7740) getCachedMarkup returns NULL instead of string if file doesn&apos;t exist (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-05-18 [ae5b661](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/ae5b661dda468af9d0addb0afe490af6f0e06a7d) Use 0775 permissions for directories (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/framework (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-13 [58696e3ed](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/58696e3ed5105e81245c30ddb7d04c3560ac2148) Set tableName on DBField before calling addToQuery (#10946) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-09-05 [17c33231c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/17c33231c4d08ae65491970cbb46f9e17e772471) Call Textarea validation extension (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-09-05 [7ea25bf9e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7ea25bf9e1b9e2af12f10fe794a5abb88f220b70) Call addToQuery on all DBFields (#10936) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-31 [374771d4d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/374771d4d71f649a63f5258f4546415a5b30d3b4) Correctly implement backwards compatible null comparisons (#10935) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-21 [57cb55d6a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/57cb55d6ae8038ed7c919c210096a1eb4102861a) Typo in CheckboxSetFieldMultiEnumTest class name (closes #10689) (Loz Calver)
  - 2023-08-21 [1fd495449](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/1fd495449b80c13b06b0ea60620208b66617eee0) Stop ManyManyThroughList join records incorrectly showing as changed (fixes #10821) (Loz Calver)
  - 2023-08-14 [c7cd26299](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c7cd26299a3945de0d3635bdfa845bb771cd95a6) Fix ArrayList canFilterBy to work with ArrayData (#10915) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-09 [8da4aa863](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/8da4aa86379a94cffe51e3dc5f7eb0af8549234c) Regression with include argument (fixes #10911) (Loz Calver)
  - 2023-08-08 [f34564648](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/f3456464810ec0e9d4cffbf2d22886ee41a807fc) Allow subclasses of ManyMany lists in EagerLoadedList (#10905) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-07 [037168a4f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/037168a4fe9759b7f464ee8403dab612a570bab6) Multi HTML entities in shortcodes (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-08-04 [c9f48089c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c9f48089c9a8ce8d220b4ad42c32b8b56b0d87d1) Ensure DataList::eagerLoad() returns a clone (#10899) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-04 [3628cec1f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/3628cec1f33494632b492db51866b3a517514e93) Empty relations don&apos;t have extra DB calls with eager-loading (#10886) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-31 [c58bc0a7f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c58bc0a7ffb94d969119da21f62534e202185f51) Use TransportFactory to prevent infinite config loop (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-29 [909bee810](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/909bee810194ec630f440fb610a45999acebd921) fix cache key (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-07-29 [359cb1427](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/359cb1427afee373ea9ff00f8aea148fdd6ec9ed) include Silverstripe core files into roots (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-07-24 [d24095aba](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d24095aba8de6e3328859953f00e1c6a4ac00db3) Image in summaryfields breaks search (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-20 [642321db6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/642321db61b9790400a4c2c593092cab4c3ae6f2) Trigger eagerloading for first() and last() (#10875) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-20 [7daa3fdb0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7daa3fdb0807a6360bd320eebecfc542a735bf8a) Short-array syntax for Enum (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-10 [3bf845a9e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/3bf845a9e6c8ec2e38b3144626b0a7708d5cd6ea) Protect against loading incorrect eager-loaded relations. (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-10 [95d1c674a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/95d1c674a289224e7e4b6da1ce906479cc6d6286) Allow multiple iterations of eager-loaded DataLists (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-07 [8c3ba8105](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/8c3ba810524f7bbcba92c36deb4194f84a0d075f) PHP 8.1 support in MySQLiConnector::query errors (#10570) (Dylan Wagstaff)
  - 2023-07-06 [a03d0fdf6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/a03d0fdf684e00d388b67af6ce9bdc99877709af) ListboxField entwine submissions (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-07-06 [d0ca9cfdd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d0ca9cfdde01ae9c169decf59a95aae5b6acfa72) many_many extraFields and join records weren&apos;t in eagerloading (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-05 [612f7e734](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/612f7e734ff29b5a988d6840f0b90cead125bf97) Allow repeated iterations of predicated query result (#10857) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-03 [7af0fe245](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7af0fe245c1dcf45467c0c8cc0d6cf2c59c28f61) Resolve problems with eagerloading performance (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-26 [bb5378e17](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/bb5378e177b8924527a8a27607fc07979a2e795a) Gridfiled pagination missing after search (#10828) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-21 [ad9df9762](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ad9df97626f0cba772a1f6066feb059f08f13938) LastPage method returns true if TotalPages equals 0 (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-13 [35a8d79f6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/35a8d79f624623527682eb3920327ca8aeb0b5cf) Show correct default value (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-12 [f4e0c768b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/f4e0c768bdeeb3c2a379320eb219a6020c80ce08) Handle **TRAIT** in i18nTextCollector (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-12 [f88b7c3c2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/f88b7c3c2be6fde3d02d7f1f88ffacfe89c45072) Duplicate page keeps original pages canView and canEdit permission (#10806) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-09 [33c62033f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/33c62033fea1408d58721e7264725ffb65b9e04e) Fix translation key for DataObject.GENERALSEARCH (#10805) (Bram de Leeuw)
  - 2023-06-07 [95eceb8d9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/95eceb8d9e3652a5bc4c5b8f9f8fe74e87fffb0a) Ensure dir exists before scanning it (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-06 [face94371](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/face94371ee7fcccbe93cc5a522fc220eeaa8424) Passing 0 as first argument breaks template (dominik)
  - 2023-05-22 [c4b8d9a24](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c4b8d9a246c270c9bf1c4cd95a2bbbbfef79b4fa) Add back missing SSL support for database connections (#10784) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-21 [f815a9cf2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/f815a9cf2ab40921b1936b2ae76f21c89e793f7c) Provide correct replacement suggestion in deprecation message (Michal Kleiner)
  - 2023-05-16 [696fe79dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/696fe79dd6f600bb35daff3cfa48182a19433252) Use OR conjuctive in filterAny aggregate queries (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-16 [2afb01463](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/2afb01463b6a116f4a1f99576b203c8837e384b8) Don&apos;t redirect admin URLs regardless of trailing slash (#10781) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-16 [ef3b91417](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ef3b91417a47fa48ece5a3499ce405a37eb05376) Get ApcuCacheFactory and MemcachedCacheFactory working again (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-11 [675ba9028](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/675ba90280e61b471dd4a77e39bcc724cd8c0009) fix issue where member without valid email can not be saved (Nicolaas / Sunny Side Up)
  - 2023-05-08 [01808a831](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/01808a8316b182a438dfc5365cec8fffdb096c8e) Don&apos;t assume searchableFields() exists in gridfield filter (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2021-06-09 [5bb5ef80e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/5bb5ef80ede8d75f2de05c8aaf367925269a14de) Form::defaultAction() didn&apos;t work if actions were in CompositeFields (fixes #9975) (Loz Calver)

- silverstripe/admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-11 [8c89bb32](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/8c89bb32609509144cf8825511902c6163cf4f9e) Allow wrapping an image in a link (#1579) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-09-06 [c9913dc3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/c9913dc3a7477882b79ed7f8e9f7db90119bad52) Allow wrapping an image in a link (#1577) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-29 [8c71ef1d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/8c71ef1d87e070380f7e17a97f24b502ed988980) Focus on first search field (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-08-29 [baf4f501](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/baf4f5018d286cb9be5c8e8c1ada87fabec2843b) Update TinyMCE CSS files (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-28 [886a626c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/886a626c7dc21e729d40dc1c6f9ded8fcf53b3f3) Don&apos;t use state unnecessarily (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-03 [ee30f31e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/ee30f31ec430c10e6aaa9bc1355c1a4a35004e5c) Popover toggle (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-14 [d6a3c470](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/d6a3c47023d1bff6985bdae0be0612c2dce0b031) Don&apos;t load a second TinyMCE instance from react (#1525) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-13 [f12d38a8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/f12d38a89abdd29052e162ef1bf07f889b84c3b9) Set current locale based on actual defined dictionaries (#1523) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-13 [5697904a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/5697904aafc683a9b95768f80f49f9b039857a13) Eslint and Storybook errors (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-12 [83e6bc29](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/83e6bc291b9fdf563ed5f255d752a57c64c6b5e9) Replace 4 space indent with 2 spaces (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-02 [fdad7a87](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/fdad7a87e3cba7e55ac029e065cf2b00c0cb75fa) Syntax error TinyMC when using special characters (#1517) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-05-19 [7738c603](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/7738c6035cce8407e48fda7846be0f36a70024d9) fix: update docs and user help urls (Izzudin Anuar)
  - 2023-05-01 [7849e187](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/7849e1878cbdd3d152b317c1f3498731839ff332) TinyMCE custom config issue (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/asset-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-11 [66f307b2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/66f307b23e17943ce4df7af21ad9a33107120c79) Allow wrapping an image in a link (#1398) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-09-07 [03973f98](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/03973f987a3a0b56890c5013af02899528ebab18) Image tag is converted to shortcode even if it doesn&apos;t have parent node (#1395) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-09-06 [8a6ee41d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/8a6ee41d1f5f163548b6797bedd003eea37dd2e9) Allow wrapping an image in a link (#1397) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-06 [3281ee87](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/3281ee873fba1705853d409e11f88897fa803658) ESLint issues (#1371) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-19 [4be853dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/4be853dd4a5f85c5d86b8e1ff9d84d8c86f7a8f9) Upload files issue in AssetDropzone (#1368) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-12 [8bfff8ee](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/8bfff8eefdef7395ee55e96086aa6c57e0b86c58) Replace 4 space indent with 2 spaces (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-05-10 [206cb48a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/206cb48a9e5590eca850a636d4a15a009f8aa32d) Broken Insert Image behat test (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-05-04 [b5b16f02](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/b5b16f02f6ae6221ec8c4d7e27e3867e04828654) Update deprecation notice with correct message (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/versioned-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-15 [73cc19d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned-admin/commit/73cc19da03bdef5a7002bac546bcee8ccd50a223) Handle no trailing slash in other tab of archive admin (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/cms (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-14 [061517ac](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/061517ac451766e21f668a4555bfdc9fd06581de) Regression issue UI URLSegment buttons (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-09-11 [4a92f5eb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/4a92f5eb64b7442e27ea79c96098912c03d9abeb) Allow wrapping an image in a link (#2884) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-09-06 [ba578cfc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/ba578cfc0673ee4a98dff6a01ac0ba045a862638) Allow wrapping an image in a link (#2883) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-31 [269eb5d7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/269eb5d70ce0266100288025c99c2904d8e66c2c) SiteTree::DependentPages method returns non-SiteTree instance (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-12 [39fe63db](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/39fe63db8a2bdfbd649ce7f3e59e27366db5783c) Duplicate page keeps original pages canView and canEdit permission (#2859) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-05-08 [55eabd66](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/55eabd669459734f1661983dd8f6d1ff66102342) Don&apos;t require jQuery on the frontend (#2854) (Guy Sartorelli)

- silverstripe/versioned (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-14 [f98b817](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/f98b8170bba1fa1bd5dab03d2db28f7c6e23e338) Return diff in ChangedFields() (#406) (Guy Sartorelli)

- silverstripe/graphql (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [c74fa1c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/c74fa1cb7be7c642588b89fee2a323ddfa6dc0a8) Handle using injected subclasses (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-04 [2981640](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/2981640b96bb9e2cfa41232b48f8a0b61e02fc5f) fix(SortPlugin): amend sorting to all fields (Chris Joe)
  - 2023-05-25 [6c8d0d7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/6c8d0d743500a07ed80cc783e9872ecaaee70393) NestedInputBuilder doesn&apos;t work with nested &apos;*&apos; (mason)

- silverstripe/session-manager (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-11 [5b82124](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/5b821243461a7c81e2bda903bedfde195f55e468) fix missing variables (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-10 [7ea28df](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/7ea28df5d9a6f22e4ec8a0ebe525637dede9f236) fix conflict (Thomas)
  - 2023-06-12 [b731fab](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/b731faba88cab8daa1c02e717449e2ff23335dd7) Replace 4 space indent with 2 spaces (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/tagfield (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-17 [efeb8b2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-tagfield/commit/efeb8b224d34659eb903d354123729e855b898be) TagField triggers edit form change without changes (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-12 [a2b1a82](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-tagfield/commit/a2b1a827347779e375025bb05cd09a96deefab94) Replace 4 space indent with 2 spaces (Sabina Talipova)

- symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-05-10 [f8b2057](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/f8b205748756073963f3c0ebfa5d6408c9de4db0) Fix typo in userguide (Michal Kleiner)
  - 2023-05-10 [788caf5](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/788caf5a99f3cd17cac266f3598e982c483b9413) Fix typo (Ed Wilde)
  - 2021-07-08 [8bc9a24](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/8bc9a24d8197bb103d9d6c7b109f52849b470c08) Don&apos;t remove jobs when processing via publish job (Will Rossiter)

- silverstripe/userforms (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-05 [f1510dc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/f1510dca9e8527c3df65d14ac5a707124aa1cb1b) Renable email link to submitted file (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-17 [cf9a109](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/cf9a109d3823472e54171bec29e961a5891189c0) Tighten routing rule for userforms ping action (#1224) (Tyler Trout)
  - 2023-08-08 [60717e5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/60717e5c04cf3aa496b3a9838a4cd1851ef139e0) Use absolute URL for submitted file links in emails (#1226) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-31 [bf49cab](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/bf49cab67818552df3252daef4667757243a2b20) Prevent infinite recursion when field display rules are co-dependent (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-17 [7af0009](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/7af0009321bbc7d910066cb317eb3245c5f792e2) Passing array to setReplyTo method instead of string (#1208) (Sabina Talipova)

- dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-21 [e17dbf1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/e17dbf10486e1a397fe2586c7ab002fc28167191) Save repeated database queries to fetch elemental area name (fixes #928) (Loz Calver)
  - 2021-09-01 [fc19dc9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/fc19dc914cfbb51ff480f4f5c6158597f22a8e67) Retain value that failed validation on client side (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/elemental-fileblock (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-10 [2f06274](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-fileblock/commit/2f06274d2978d7a80b7f375199f6ef82a618ba01) HTML showing in inline preview (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/elemental-bannerblock (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-10 [450666c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-bannerblock/commit/450666cc5b7c06ccfd86889c639670de3df30b1a) HTML showing in inline preview (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/developer-docs (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-05-10 [2639d5a1](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/2639d5a16b2f9f11526067cb93a3ddffd78b9a5b) Broken icon (#264) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/environmentcheck (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.0.1)
  - 2023-05-19 [28ca036](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-environmentcheck/commit/28ca03634535a3cded21dc57406fb186818a14c8) Fix arguments order in SolrIndexCheck (Michal Kleiner)

- silverstripe/gridfieldqueuedexport (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-14 [4549433](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-gridfieldqueuedexport/commit/45494338169f677c95d029a6a08a77d77b5f1ed6) Don&apos;t mark mocked response as an error (#82) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-23 [bbfeb2d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-gridfieldqueuedexport/commit/bbfeb2d60fd2e239b71141f248041385af5902d2) #80 check $gridField exists before calling getConfig() (Luke Fromhold)

- silverstripe/subsites (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-28 [fe42821](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/fe4282169b9d2e4f35e1107d87e263f1afc2a4a1) Set extraCodes to false for CMSProfileController (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/lumberjack (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.0.2)
  - 2023-07-31 [ecefcdc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-lumberjack/commit/ecefcdc48cc84516f7c173beef283b375f12577f) Remove infinite loop by reverting #127 (#129) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-20 [fcdfcdf](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-lumberjack/commit/fcdfcdfb3037d3faa671e2606e0f242ca6d7cb62) Allow extension methods to be used in lumberjack  (#127) (wernerkrauss)

- symbiote/silverstripe-multivaluefield (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.0.1)
  - 2023-01-16 [02742df](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-multivaluefield/commit/02742df60737389aeecebfb8989a9e2909d5492a) Fix saving of CheckboxSetMultivalueField (Florian Thoma)

- symbiote/silverstripe-gridfieldextensions (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.0.3)
  - 2023-08-14 [47171ee](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-gridfieldextensions/commit/47171ee4c25f552fb7bac80c1666775c24bcaac0) Allow editing extra fields from ManyManyThroughList. (Guy Sartorelli)

### API changes {#changelog-api-changes}

- silverstripe/vendor-plugin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.0.1)
  - 2023-02-06 [2b85737](https://github.com/silverstripe/vendor-plugin/commit/2b857372fc5c44580add91b8ddc685c3bd12aa88) Deprecate publicPathExists() (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/framework (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-19 [4b22ab4df](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/4b22ab4dfe8ee04e19d26f70d8fcbdbe92d81c06) deprecate InheritedPermissions::getJoinTable (Andrew Paxley)
  - 2023-05-16 [b51bc427a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/b51bc427aa6e2f58e0b2a07826095ff1c18902e6) Remove deprecated template vars (Mohamed Alsharaf)
  - 2023-04-26 [73ef035bd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/73ef035bd8ddfb6f386b78d4d9c957b4859d9a99) Add AbsoluteLink method to RequestHandler (#10749) (Guy Sartorelli)

### Dependencies

- silverstripe/recipe-kitchen-sink (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-12 [891be0b](https://github.com/silverstripe/recipe-kitchen-sink/commit/891be0bbc673a3ffcd07a7d567f024beceeb4665) Remove unsupported modules (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/framework (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-05-30 [80c51b6bd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/80c51b6bd2e719d8afe9f79d13e0ca10d4e71ffc) Explicitly require psr/HTTP-message ^1 (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-24 [e55451619](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/e554516193afd6f3cf2762b3809b48f1c05590d0) Explicitly require psr/HTTP-message ^1 (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-30 [724d8453](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/724d8453af444de927b5fce1babd45e0cbf3b0ad) Update JS dependencies (#1569) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-08-24 [8851fe36](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/8851fe3603ec6b0ccd29f57e14cc353fd811990b) Update JS dependencies and update TinyMCE_sslink.js onunmatch() (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-11 [c0ed41ce](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/c0ed41ce469d7c9edc2df9d4df86fb6eba732a33) Update eslint module (#1535) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/asset-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [959966b3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/959966b32a21ae722652c83939a4aed2a9f1198c) Update JS dependencies (#1390) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [a9f6a311](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/a9f6a3116214401b4af16acda2f3f3ff135f911a) Update eslint module (#1373) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/campaign-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [b8c3108](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/b8c3108a77bb1bd1b34145762e1601781e934d68) Update JS dependencies (#278) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [9e5e00b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/9e5e00bb13b88e12e34091667ec93abcc647c890) Update eslint module (#273) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/versioned-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [1ae7961](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned-admin/commit/1ae79617848ffe0fff2c63e988704c31b688649b) Update JS dependencies (#306) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [fc60dac](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned-admin/commit/fc60dac7d78699652bcfa1f3298a5d8dd70b2e5c) Update eslint module (#299) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/cms (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-30 [2799ef3b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/2799ef3b3975f2ea0804aa32e76ed2fbc84838b5) Update JS dependencies (#2878) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [c831b1be](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/c831b1be6b2ad35b26f8b0061ffef78f32a9d769) Update eslint module (#2868) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/session-manager (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [1128742](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/11287422d3925e37fb1e00d4cf0634539c69f82b) Update JS dependencies (#168) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [b63bac3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/b63bac3d7ca518a9588abcd8b138faa20a6c16b5) Update eslint module (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/login-forms (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [8d74414](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-login-forms/commit/8d744140003f67928717933b637d8240eae8ff5e) Update JS dependencies (#153) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-08-03 [15f5f83](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-login-forms/commit/15f5f83e5e99366322b7815218c5a52b4b675e70) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.5 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [d7f7e6b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-login-forms/commit/d7f7e6bcb8e1e7866d001227178c558e89bb46aa) Update eslint module (#143) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/documentconverter (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-03 [bde3513](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-documentconverter/commit/bde3513b692069c014a408c300c1b8ce0d3ea031) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.5 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [0112713](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-documentconverter/commit/0112713e868f79b23d8306cde84d14514b7a8aa1) Update eslint module (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/tagfield (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [d1c02ca](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-tagfield/commit/d1c02ca80032bad041ffcd48502469d4451de5f2) Update JS dependencies (#258) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [61cf375](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-tagfield/commit/61cf3751ab4bbdc7dce4ef8eeb48291f5e9279c3) Update eslint module (#250) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/recipe-blog (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-12 [b2ae936](https://github.com/silverstripe/recipe-blog/commit/b2ae936253ee650d74f13c564008f539865975de) Remove unsupported modules (Steve Boyd)

- silverstripe/blog (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [1f3878b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/1f3878bc3f689058b6bccf90704e5810fd240dcd) Update JS dependencies (#725) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-19 [23fd31c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/23fd31c1058e93034b861528b27d85c465f412e8) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [1514d0b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/1514d0b9824f70578d8b1dec05529a9601e67ea8) Update eslint module (#716) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/contentreview (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [fd1fd08](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-contentreview/commit/fd1fd08db07ae0f5605c60a3fc023541d631b3e5) Update JS dependencies (#210) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [a571e5d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-contentreview/commit/a571e5d8f893c8562c02884eba028a0830512f13) Update eslint module (#205) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/sharedraftcontent (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-04 [402eee7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/402eee71adc2714a70c0d57a5ebb484967006192) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.5 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-08-04 [5a6c069](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/5a6c0694178d1937e03e6788519b28ba8d359992) Bump semver from 6.3.0 to 6.3.1 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-01 [69170f8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sharedraftcontent/commit/69170f8204a0bed26c708e3a2f0bd783daaca4d1) Update JS dependencies (GitHub-actions)

- symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-11 [31a7ff2](https://github.com/symbiote/silverstripe-advancedworkflow/commit/31a7ff2a66423073c132d11c19045f4e3939c03c) Update eslint module (#498) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/segment-field (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [f3cb3f3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-segment-field/commit/f3cb3f34e82fa96c71f9afe261f9a01fe94a3b52) Update JS dependencies (#89) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-18 [0827a2a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-segment-field/commit/0827a2a5d8546cd6dfa6fba8144d9e300a2c4476) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [727267a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-segment-field/commit/727267ac08ced81330b2c317786ea7260985f4dc) Update eslint module (#83) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/userforms (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-31 [16c3c51](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/16c3c5122d98055884899b8fba89a63fa0310adb) Update JS dependencies (#1235) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [2d89d1b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/2d89d1baaaf941cae6bd7d304b225628890227f1) Update eslint module (#1222) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/externallinks (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-11 [be7b01c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-externallinks/commit/be7b01c1f8ff50faec72e8e9ded94e4af6973d5f) Update eslint module (#104) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/sitewidecontent-report (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-20 [9962192](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sitewidecontent-report/commit/9962192acab764698bace30d63fef994e014adc3) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [8488af8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-sitewidecontent-report/commit/8488af88acbde8d47fdf50e0b88aa5774bd8b2d2) Update eslint module (#67) (Sabina Talipova)

- dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-30 [9553867](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/955386728591bfc54de36dc6b1ebe2039451981a) Update JS dependencies (#1095) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [e8219c4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/e8219c47a368ed121fdfe2c95288d574f6ca9f4a) Update eslint module (#1075) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/elemental-bannerblock (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [d2d790d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-bannerblock/commit/d2d790df31a54ac99f327854755dd4af754d45a2) Update JS dependencies (#124) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-18 [f4cc10a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-bannerblock/commit/f4cc10afeb7dce356798be532336177baac05bff) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [7fcf870](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-bannerblock/commit/7fcf870335c36f76aafa5475e85cb20289f4787c) Update eslint module (#118) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-10 [6bc48b9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental-bannerblock/commit/6bc48b9da3042df91d261d8030cb960defa4f053) Bump tough-cookie from 4.1.2 to 4.1.3 (dependabot[bot])

- silverstripe/totp-authenticator (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [778e98a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-totp-authenticator/commit/778e98aff8ecb606d80b4838799d4a2d437863f9) Update JS dependencies (#135) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-18 [da9572c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-totp-authenticator/commit/da9572c9d6c2a20db371683f4220965505ac863e) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [9ea9c5e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-totp-authenticator/commit/9ea9c5e890279d7c7f479a15f52ef800b9b3e9a8) Update eslint module (#128) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/mfa (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-31 [f51d8ff](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-mfa/commit/f51d8fff48eecd254c651ad3473860a66280832a) Update JS dependencies (#509) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [29260f1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-mfa/commit/29260f19fc2129043ef353e93160ead235870d94) Update eslint module (#503) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/gridfieldqueuedexport (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-20 [3d6a045](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-gridfieldqueuedexport/commit/3d6a045bc366212f5ffdf55768b6e42e49d1f8b8) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [a2d6df3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-gridfieldqueuedexport/commit/a2d6df3c31e039f8ed39130ad45e398dafc83594) Update eslint module (#84) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/realme (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.2.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-20 [e653cff](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/e653cff5c211d65b4dfc9ec761cacee33a5159a7) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [cc05ad3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/cc05ad3ef7993cef0e33e12179d5be8e6ceb5c38) Update eslint module (#115) (Sabina Talipova)

- silverstripe/webauthn-authenticator (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-23 [6f29cd1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-webauthn-authenticator/commit/6f29cd1556f8da7e39cd1c929efb7a5ae419d90a) Update JS dependencies (#155) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-18 [9750907](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-webauthn-authenticator/commit/97509077b94197f36ef46993cf322cd865602fd1) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [781acec](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-webauthn-authenticator/commit/781acec34ed58ab3cc4f76274659b067806e9dfc) Update eslint module (#147) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-10 [a1d1476](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-webauthn-authenticator/commit/a1d1476df912a3365cde742bf40590017553c2f5) Bump tough-cookie from 4.1.2 to 4.1.3 (dependabot[bot])

- silverstripe/subsites (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-20 [7232bcf](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/7232bcff9e2a19f71cd4b43b46fafdbcc26a2c33) Bump word-wrap from 1.2.3 to 1.2.4 (dependabot[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [1d1f265](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/1d1f2658224b5b4dea04ec5b8706ffc41771b10d) Update eslint module (#530) (Sabina Talipova)

- cwp/agency-extensions (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-30 [1ee158f](https://github.com/silverstripe/cwp-agencyextensions/commit/1ee158f7a5eaa81a22b15d2d62c06b757e2e0169) Update JS dependencies (#103) (GitHub-actions[bot])
  - 2023-07-11 [4631ce7](https://github.com/silverstripe/cwp-agencyextensions/commit/4631ce7fde98800946dd3166fae2dd1cd5af3bda) Update eslint module (#98) (Sabina Talipova)

### Documentation

- silverstripe/framework (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-21 [e9358c88a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/e9358c88af35492c4af06386198ddcee5c8c1182) Update eagerLoad() docblock (Steve Boyd)

- dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-02-14 [c0e4994](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/c0e49940e5cccdf55f6fa446b3e5cd2083e2cadd) Update documentation for CMS 5 version of elemental (#1008) (Guy Sartorelli)

- silverstripe/developer-docs (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-12 [878fd56b](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/878fd56bbf6aee9e8a29262da2252a08cdcbc8d1) Add missing information to 5.1.0 changelog (#346) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-09-04 [e1c0825c](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/e1c0825c06c29c201e1421a5460f07915e185dd8) Add dynamodb (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-09-04 [65ffecfc](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/65ffecfc7d9d1e0fdcd8f7ee19b7eb5117eedef2) Add dynamodb (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-29 [b45605ee](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/b45605ee80cee3fbaac3d1f19e24cb60a678a802) Document changes from silverstripe/silverstripe-framework#10925 (#335) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-28 [e947f451](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/e947f45131b4807ea0a6dd7bfcb1da0462e16627) Close hint block (#316) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-28 [f590481b](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/f590481b59719f15a933b081571fa7a93810cc20) Performance improvements for changelog (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-23 [a0d6a9a5](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/a0d6a9a5fe6cff043be9b6c3cc6dbdd3fa448131) Correct hyperlink (Nate Devereux)
  - 2023-08-22 [9797fc17](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/9797fc171de50d3ed3c6eb9b75d0a321a8ac9e75) Staticpublishqueue changelog entry (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-17 [5b9afdd4](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/5b9afdd4dc3c5c2b8bedda2d12c9fb6a5547c461) Document maximumLimit in GraphQL schema (#329) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-15 [0161d551](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/0161d551b2c9db2c4d6bee9f61fba8909dc8a559) Add note about limiting session garbage collection (#328) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-15 [6c50a46b](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/6c50a46b43ea07977b87e7932b3ac08ba142e962) Add session-manager documentation (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-14 [43b6b282](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/43b6b2828b418be83175bb482c586344bb56adda) Changelog session manager anonymize IP addresses (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-14 [ef31438e](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/ef31438ef571564554ad9a64042bfdaecab8d06b) Document FieldsValidator (#319) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-11 [6f0f2e53](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/6f0f2e53a9ff6f7e8244011b28628c825b62914f) Document fixed issue with non-db summary_fields (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-11 [a7744574](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/a7744574f4ff0e7a6a6f7df9147f9135a3fe5b06) Add note about FieldsValidator to 5.1 changelog (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-08-08 [916cb8ec](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/916cb8ec3ca3fa2f760276eff4c0ccae946b7f1e) Update namespace for use_placeholders_for_integer_ids (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-07 [e2fc0056](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/e2fc0056fb5143d6a54edaf80114256073c9c579) Use correct class for keep_archived_assets config (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-08-03 [89c801eb](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/89c801ebf20afc5ff678c61803fcdd40c608b40e) Document new EagerLoadedDataList (#305) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-31 [b6e54b10](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/b6e54b10756ab02684e913bd75d925867e0195cc) Add severity rating for CVSS score of 0 (#306) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-31 [0a187eae](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/0a187eae0ab33b460c538d7b2a90698796f22b70) Warnings about searchable_fields content (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-25 [2995e23a](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/2995e23ac1ca2f648ade58b60b92fe30ad962879) SQL placeholders (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-11 [68b1be25](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/68b1be25f9d7c71935c6bfd50f10a2c6907bedad) Changelog for FileBlock::getSummaryThumbnail (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-06 [32ddcf4a](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/32ddcf4a8db447a7a77075a0808ce70b02f4a296) Document new &quot;Only these users&quot; permission (#298) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-05 [051908d4](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/051908d4f938d5b5037990583bc836882a3173f2) Changelog for SearchContext::getQuery()  parameter (#294) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-07-05 [657246c4](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/657246c472ee0bc9f39561dd2443db526bd0cfed) CMS 4 Supported modules (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-04 [7f5ca7ce](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/7f5ca7ce9bf1bc203531ad33b5505a0a5bfddf81) Call out ListboxField react component (#295) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-07-04 [24a3893c](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/24a3893c1ff309c27c1a4eeafb87f53194724b7a) Changelog CMS search with elemental (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-03 [5ffb99ef](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/5ffb99ef7a48b115b0fe4bcd52be871f8c472d9b) Update i18n (Antony Thorpe)
  - 2023-06-27 [cd758f5d](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/cd758f5d2af16ba31a5ada78a35144c2871912c0) Document storing gql schema in cache dir (#257) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-25 [380b81ae](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/380b81ae4289b1f49b04447ab9961f320c2316fb) Correct bad enum syntax (Maxime Rainville)
  - 2023-06-22 [ef4d8a57](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/ef4d8a575fe4924388346258ddcef8c5d4e37eeb) Fix typo in Introduction.md (Maxime Rainville)
  - 2023-06-16 [8fa5dd06](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/8fa5dd0614e11d803e65156db0fa80b1bae07fd0) Update undefinedoffset-sortablegridfield info (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-14 [362f86dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/362f86dd6887647a7e876c0c6b6786a266a596dc) Quote all YAML service definitions (#285) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-13 [08f04c86](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/08f04c86ea6f4097027e6bb1ab7fffcaaad3c5fb) Review extending docs for truthfulness (#273) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-06-12 [9d5b988a](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/9d5b988a14d1cf46b6cec728290941202265e5b7) silverstripe/widgets removed (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-12 [bcd9d7fa](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/bcd9d7fae8cf9f15f14c7e465af5fa4ad96aa025) cascade_duplicates property in SiteTree class (#282) (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-06-08 [51b63278](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/51b632788f1eb2c25c1b9cba2e8f103a9c5d58bf) Eager loading (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-08 [b450bad0](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/b450bad0cdda3638bfd17c55eaebe318ca05d22f) BuildTask is_enabled config (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-06-07 [ffbd5979](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/ffbd59793b3e9003e0a8076118c89c3dd7b2ab20) Use HTMLValue (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-22 [08d0828d](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/08d0828de3d552ea0a52aed15fba2f24238bebd9) Document the requirement to install Composer 2 (#275) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-22 [de1a71f5](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/de1a71f555e6dabd655914faa8b9187940511644) Add note in 5.1 changelog about DB SSL (#272) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-22 [3068943e](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/3068943e3516edd44a4702ac844d6eb0177de9cc) Document using SSL for db connections (#271) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-18 [1c6adfca](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/1c6adfcaca26062c574006d09e5bae6882cb9380) Update configuration docs (#268) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-17 [588ba477](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/588ba47745eb5de44726f39aa8441a9d1434ee0a) fix partial caching config example (Jono Menz)
  - 2023-05-16 [f9a19089](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/f9a19089f6b30e08789ff930a9ae15cd3f1b469e) Add additional context to CMS 5 changelog (#267) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-16 [7d296b4c](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/7d296b4c40ee7e371af55c506c259588a5c7e94c) filterAny() many-many aggregate conjunction (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-05-14 [c5e02441](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/c5e0244193a3d049ad05bbecc9bf5dec22a3d507) Review forms section (#254) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-08 [14b5ece1](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/14b5ece1f1aef862c1427aa234f0ff63e35e88dd) Document changes to i18nTextCollector (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-05-04 [0c57c585](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/0c57c5858ea9642c32d41b8d5a93f841289a77d7) Updated recommendation for depreceted class Silverstripe\View\Embed\EmbedResource (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-05-04 [a1b5b8ce](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/a1b5b8ce3e687791f0290ab47537fa19ad0256c5) Remove links for unsupported modules (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-05-04 [a68fb70c](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/a68fb70c7117c50daf77ce2bf71c0b2b3963bd01) Add note regarding the split of the activedirectory module into the saml and ldap modules. (Matt Peel)
  - 2023-05-04 [58968964](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/58968964df1da0d25eb0599c127020279aafa26f) Fix anchor link to full commits list (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-04-19 [1ddb6dfb](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/1ddb6dfba51aba54537db64d3a6439c798699267) remove core committer (Stevie Mayhew)
  - 2023-04-10 [27d4ab93](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/27d4ab93620eecf440bf83231bf09701e8a6e771) Document the changes in silverstripe/silverstripe-framework#10735 (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-04-03 [fda0ccbd](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/fda0ccbd73f9fd12dc1fff7fb937155074d3ae53) Add additional context about excluding models from db checks (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-04-03 [cb7f3756](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/cb7f37567a1eb7eb16bbc0f925e272af01daf542) Add section on ORM performance (#201) (Guy Sartorelli)
  - 2023-03-13 [e6764a37](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/e6764a373ec8ea8f328e6af2b99b4aaf6a180090) Fix minor typos to Major release policy (Maxime Rainville)
  - 2023-03-08 [fad702f3](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/fad702f3df74be687c2535edf3c1bd13379f3b15) Clarify when we will consider changing a module name or namespace (Maxime Rainville)

### Other changes

- silverstripe/installer (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-04 [d371ae7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-installer/commit/d371ae7dc3cff1f1530e6db8a574ab4f26bbd077) Fixed link to V5 &quot;Contributing Code&quot; Docs (minimalic)

- silverstripe/assets (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-10 [418906d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/418906dc504fea7863eb151b52e0060e329e38f5) use dbObject (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-03 [4bf41f3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/4bf41f3d2420784afde0a732e4c5c341254196c4) Update FileLinkTracking.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-25 [43aecdb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/43aecdb90951e35cc512c6a4520f204d3f85a998) use strong return type (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-23 [41dc93c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/41dc93cf47d63ff7ec4ec8df97a7f3a74a42f561) make it private (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-22 [4eb92f4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/4eb92f48cc6277b942b47edd32d8b9dbdb7a968b) Don&apos;t run onBefore if no assets (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-22 [a7d5386](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/a7d538688032f74cbada50f2bce0fc044a359901) Don&apos;t make query if not needed (Thomas Portelange)

- silverstripe/config (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-07-18 [44769a6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-config/commit/44769a61bdfc0b598a02297bbd87fd19666cb508) CachedConfigCollection is written to disk on every page load (#89) (Thomas Portelange)

- silverstripe/framework (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-11 [17733aa84](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/17733aa84ad4852bd5a5e8b157790d0993485d9c) added missing returns (fluent setter) (Rastislav Brandobur)
  - 2023-08-30 [7ae7e9ff4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7ae7e9ff472b5fa9789dea49ebccbc1a829ba419) added maxLength validation tests (Rastislav Brandobur)
  - 2023-08-28 [d6c39e7d3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d6c39e7d367c290df4cc5d838e4b1740f11e3d2d) added missing maxLength validation (Rastislav Brandobur)
  - 2023-08-25 [88c70b323](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/88c70b323475cd7879e312637f185ef286e6c589) Fixed deprecation notices in PHP 8.2 by using the AllowDynamicProperties (Niklas Forsdahl)
  - 2023-08-15 [6c2b5bdbe](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/6c2b5bdbe174169e199c7b2d593f7b5f4697035c) Update src/Security/Member.PHP (Sunny Side Up)
  - 2023-08-15 [93d03f71e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/93d03f71ef8700c15d424628057d72e357c06233) MINOR: set a default password encryption for a member, if no password encryption is set. (Sunny Side Up)
  - 2023-08-14 [637859a1f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/637859a1f45d50978b93e12bc90f1a21079a7678) Update tests/PHP/ORM/DBCompositeTest.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [0d4231abb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/0d4231abb8a35043d44058afdf1a2e3df1147240) comment test for ss4 (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-10 [d621d00ee](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d621d00eea25cacc930084f75e9b6dc837e3a9d2) DBComposite::writeToManipulation() is never called (Thomas)
  - 2023-08-02 [0e839e12c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/0e839e12cc4af42801b5290fc8704a5ba3fc61be) Update src/Core/Manifest/VersionProvider.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-02 [b9f63001c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/b9f63001c5c6a63d89461d448fe8753f88326bdd) Update src/Core/Manifest/VersionProvider.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-01 [c0cc129f1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c0cc129f1249ee979c2052700b4d818c30c94965) remove sprintf (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-01 [d3c2fa897](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d3c2fa897c06b4c8379b514a7773c74e1c3ee4ea) nicer key (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-28 [a019b34fa](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/a019b34facc35066fce3355118a2dcb67fcf01a0) csfix (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-28 [a96918043](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/a96918043312ab4575e79c62fbbfe8c0f3de411c) add anonymize (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-23 [9391e696b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/9391e696bbb4e12f58c52f3335b15b0e157cc2c1) use Member::class (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-22 [2e73b5eec](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/2e73b5eeca692f015d63539322dccf62e25cf72a) Use cached query (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-14 [b6a3e3a95](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/b6a3e3a9519e0adc52fb1bd75e1f4974a554c011) added an additional filter to remove empty array items (#10803) (josephlewisnz)
  - 2023-06-08 [30cd4047d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/30cd4047df1ae9fb5801ace59fe5732b8c71531e) Adjust isEnabled method  (#10801) (kevingroeger)
  - 2023-05-24 [e98f0d45a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/e98f0d45af1f3684748a1a49d47d0f91f2bc0225) Use ::create instead of new in GridFieldDetailForm_ItemRequest (#10791) (Bernard Hamlin)
  - 2023-05-15 [0ab36f6ae](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/0ab36f6ae18262b5c298a7f0d501aa5d6dac4a1c) UPD Add support new TinyMC cs_CZ.js (Sabina Talipova)
  - 2023-04-27 [9660652fb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/9660652fbca17870ad2bbd52aec96aff7d8d4a44) MINOR: faster checking if record exists (Nicolaas / Sunny Side Up)
  - 2023-04-12 [1dbb2bc5b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/1dbb2bc5badbb15a79aff7d1f2e1126086ee9fe6) remove manually added config values in test (Florian Thoma)
  - 2023-04-10 [0d9724c70](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/0d9724c70804255ca6ee8ba7bc7941edf2f7e0de) Update tests/PHP/Forms/TreeDropdownFieldTest.PHP (elliot sawyer)
  - 2023-04-05 [41c4b4ee0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/41c4b4ee020011e09ff44edd7e90ca1e38176490) make Group use tri-state can* extension hooks, fixes #9580 (Florian Thoma)
  - 2023-02-13 [04266f77c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/04266f77ccae635fc8c3367afee2e64f041f3e42) Update i18nTextCollector to collect strings also from themes (Florian Thoma)
  - 2023-02-13 [c0722308a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c0722308af48a9f1ee5d2d549c22640c55c9e5bc) add loading of automatic ORM field labels to i18nTextCollector (Florian Thoma)

- silverstripe/admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-25 [0b59826b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/0b59826bcd61522a85676e2bddae9f0eadd28199) Fixed deprecation notices in PHP 8.2 by using the AllowDynamicProperties (Niklas Forsdahl)
  - 2023-08-17 [f2732691](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/f273269136eabaa885d34ec65107b3b6ef0f9571) Update util.js (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-17 [1877b387](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/1877b3879ab8809945b017f9bb16c70b2aa9c309) Update collapse.js (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-17 [4c285f3e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/4c285f3e3fddbe070b47674f484ac68a0923e270) remove sourcemap (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-14 [6ef5b9bc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/6ef5b9bcbc270c6afe5326e4c4e80b5c1cdae0c5) Make security admin more easily extensible (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [a77f54b4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/a77f54b409df4af11472d37e275a9b42ce705b5f) EHN Implement the new logo (Maxime Rainville)

- silverstripe/asset-admin (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-08 [e0d5fca3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/e0d5fca37dee5ffc4d730d35f161b46581e8a836) Allows display of validation messages on assets (Bernie Hamlin)
  - 2023-05-12 [5eaff19d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/5eaff19db8856f99717bc6b112ba0434d1119431) Adds Folder ID for TinyMCE_sslink-file to allow us to target a specific folder when user clicks on TinyMCE link to file: (Garry Yeatman)

- silverstripe/cms (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-18 [3295dd50](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/3295dd5062cfe4d78ba6242f9a00ea55fa258c23) Don&apos;t make query if not needed (#2863) (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-07-28 [c455a828](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/c455a8288f1a2cf7732f21e5bdaf0e015e81598a) drop duplicated call (Thomas Portelange)

- silverstripe/graphql (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-14 [562c251](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/562c251b7819c616c40c412dfc7d396ab424b491) Revert &quot;NEW Enable storing GraphQL schema in `silverstripe-cache/`&quot; (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-24 [ac6fdc2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/ac6fdc2ba96dbd78675f52dd8d2d4950d1d75beb) Run dev/build add-on only once (Dylan Wagstaff)
  - 2023-07-07 [47811b8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/47811b88cd1ae7e39cf13ed698223f6a13b4d047) test(SortPlugin): add integration test for multi-sort (Chris Joe)
  - 2023-02-09 [db1d6d3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/db1d6d37cbde903c65c9a350075bb64ea18c4f3b) Support maximumLimit in pagination (Nils Hellberg)

- silverstripe/session-manager (2.0.0 -&gt; 2.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-14 [9bcd9e7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/9bcd9e771338ade1065117a2af9b99a33d922090) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [78c27ed](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/78c27ed48f14b293defbd3a9f8900cb22066ba14) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [8f88faf](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/8f88faf44534457d17e3d00309a50057ed289f46) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [9d1fd25](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/9d1fd2598de8f3c7bf9a8295318f880ebae39d7a) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [6612efc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/6612efc56a3b6047bc7652ee04b26e888736311c) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [d6d1af6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/d6d1af682c7f7024b00875341ed15029fb923701) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [43cb4ee](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/43cb4ee8a36edd6c430d54dfa6e100da2f525c9a) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [a4faf82](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/a4faf82c1552ddb4191948f6a4f9e41b71e1da7e) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [e84f1f6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/e84f1f62fc099cdf7bdf544a09f1c09ed30f4c50) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [83986d6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/83986d6c30a335cb55ade9f78706acee18a45a00) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-11 [b2d6021](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/b2d602102d2a8cc5be2bd83eb8d6765b58dcdf02) Update src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.PHP (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-08-10 [be50af6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/be50af667065123577853b23d96f5c67f9284126) Garbage collector do not work on large tables (Thomas)
  - 2023-06-28 [30389d1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/30389d1a01d391253a56c2f2e6beb448e7bd24bd) wording update (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-28 [348fe08](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/348fe08e172d9bada2517032cf1c44c3a6f48bdd) allow mock time in garbage service (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-28 [cef0628](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/commit/cef06282c4edbaa71064dc3b83b0347e0a61ca30) actually show that mock time does something (Thomas Portelange)

- silverstripe/tagfield (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-18 [92823c7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-tagfield/commit/92823c790ac5fb25aebdbb33c438493e7232869c) Adds back onBlur handler (Bernie Hamlin)

- silverstripe/blog (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-10 [bcbb40e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/bcbb40e08d7f674206fcd2fb5deaf0adea487b33) Replace deprecated sort rand with shuffle (3Dgoo)
  - 2023-08-10 [7189427](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-blog/commit/7189427bf35d78de628ac1b32ba85205e316e601) Replace deprecated sort rand with shuffle (3Dgoo)

- silverstripe/spamprotection (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0)
  - 2023-07-11 [a358621](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-spamprotection/commit/a3586210e2e0dbd6ed20961923e5d3209b4e2366) Add Cloudflare Turnstile captcha link (Bernard Hamlin)

- silverstripe/userforms (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-07 [0dfd299](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/0dfd2990dde1cd5ee474d02d248d38b39ec1f582) Use window.ss.config provided adminUrl (#1211) (Michal Kleiner)
  - 2023-04-26 [0b61d1a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/0b61d1a3bba0dc7254976cd1da8b35cf15373840) not remove Submissions, use setTitle (Lukas Erni)
  - 2023-04-19 [0d7f7ed](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-userforms/commit/0d7f7ed6d0978b8f663da792318058ffcdfb2981) Submission tab translatable (Lukas Erni)

- dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-05-15 [2c32dc8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/commit/2c32dc8d875b315dc5bc41609305ca11dfd45c10) Focus PR back to original scope (Guy Sartorelli)

- silverstripe/developer-docs (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-11 [949791ee](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/949791ee113444c800b3c00cfea3e8a117479f82) Update en/02_Developer_Guides/05_Extending/01_Extensions.md (Tyler Trout)
  - 2023-09-07 [e33ca32d](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/e33ca32d6e9b76bc273f45ff66e4c2c7aa861093) Updated with database column type override info (Tyler Trout)
  - 2023-09-01 [bc33bc89](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/bc33bc890e65e38bea5d60de8883f2a4ba757361) Correct Table of Contents linking (Nate Devereux)
  - 2023-08-14 [566fac25](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/566fac25c0e031f39bba5a97fff6d1cd172ef9d0) Revert &quot;DOC Document storing gql schema in cache dir&quot; (Steve Boyd)
  - 2023-07-24 [51ad53f3](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/51ad53f3332ee7f6f8ffed98bb08e92926eeb38a) parent 1a73935fdecaa1cbeee0ad12986267d5c1e4a62f (Maxime Rainville)
  - 2023-07-21 [393f13dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/393f13dd90ddadbb1b8fa3197e1b9a0b85ac9212) Update 02_configuring_your_schema.md (Patrick Ct)
  - 2023-06-22 [d61a330e](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/commit/d61a330e5baccc8940b7fd1b12034cae16bb58e1) Update 00_Introduction.md (Izzudin Anuar)

- silverstripe/gridfieldqueuedexport (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-06-07 [48cf053](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-gridfieldqueuedexport/commit/48cf053f2e345a89b4914c67c099296da8a39d39) Update src/Extensions/UserFormUseQueuedExportExtension.PHP (Luke Fromhold)

- silverstripe/realme (5.0.0 -&gt; 5.2.0-rc1)
  - 2023-04-28 [4dc8654](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/4dc8654c1875217782870dca514e21ca53a349e1) Replacing all occurances of $backURL with $backUrl  in enforeLogin function (LABCAT)
  - 2023-04-19 [fe483f4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-realme/commit/fe483f409e121605365e82f76d98909bc8c1fcba) Fixing &quot;Undefined variable $backURL&quot; in enforeLogin function (LABCAT)

- silverstripe/subsites (3.0.0 -&gt; 3.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-16 [39de471](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/39de47167d9eadab4d2cb89a6a91684037814911) don&apos;t trigger permissionFailure when it&apos;s not needed (Thomas Portelange)
  - 2023-06-21 [a052bfd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-subsites/commit/a052bfd5909a70825dbc654dfd16204ea661cb1c) Add extension to correctly support element preview (Michal Kleiner)

- silverstripe/staticpublishqueue (6.0.0 -&gt; 6.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-08-22 [c651e04](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-staticpublishqueue/commit/c651e045785b816eb99cbf7d72dde8d6bc2c5f19) Match generate and purge actions to CMS behaviours (#168) (Chris Penny)

- dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms (4.0.0 -&gt; 4.1.0-rc1)
  - 2023-09-05 [2d2a3fd](https://github.com/dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental-userforms/commit/2d2a3fd148d3007ea418fe444081d6f199d2cf38) Adding description ElementForm (LABCAT)

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->
