---
title: 5.3.0 (unreleased)
---

# 5.3.0 (unreleased)

## Overview

- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [High-level API for converting files](#file-converter)
  - [Validation for elemental content blocks when saving individual blocks](#elemental-validation)
  - [Support for `JOIN` in SQL `UPDATE`](#sql-update-join)
  - [Other new features](#other-new-features)
  - [API changes](#api-changes)
- [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)

## Features and enhancements

### Changes to `TinyMCEConfig` {#changes-to-tinymce}

In order to facilitate fixing a bug related to the sanitisation of HTML content via the [`HTMLEditorSanitiser`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\HTMLEditor\HTMLEditorSanitiser) class, some changes had to be made to the [`TinyMCEConfig`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\HTMLEditor\TinyMCEConfig) class. Those changes are as follows:

- If `valid_elements` and `extended_valid_elements` are both empty, all HTML elements will be stripped out of the HTML content.
- A default set of `valid_elements` has been defined for all `TinyMCEConfig` instances. If you use custom `TinyMCEConfig` definitions and have not explicitly set the `valid_elements` option, you may have more elements permitted than you were expecting.
- There is a new [`TinyMCEConfig.default_options`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\HTMLEditor\TinyMCEConfig->default_options) configuration property which allows you to define the default options for all `TinyMCEConfig` instances.

> [!WARNING]
> If you use custom `TinyMCEConfig` definitions, we strongly recommend double checking if they include a definition of `valid_elements`, and if they don't, validate whether the default set defined in `TinyMCEConfig.default_options` is suitable for you.
>
> You can either change the `TinyMCEConfig.default_options` configuration value to affect the options for all `TinyMCEConfig` definitions, or explicitly define `valid_elements` for your specific configuration instances. See [setting options](/developer_guides/forms/field_types/htmleditorfield/#setting-options) for more details.

See [sanitisation of HTML](#sanitisation-of-html) for more information about the bug that was fixed.

### High-level API for converting files {#file-converter}

There is now a high-level API for converting files from one format to another. This builds on top of the low-level API which was [added in 5.2.0](/changelogs/5.2.0/#file-variants).

Files can be converted both in PHP code and in templates:

```php
// Convert an image to webp format and apply the FitMax manipulation to the result
$this->MyImage()->Convert('webp')->FitMax(100, 100);
```

```ss
<%-- Convert an image to webp format and apply the FitMax manipulation to the result --%>
$MyImage.Convert('webp').FitMax(100, 100)
```

Out of the box `silverstripe/assets` provides the new [`InterventionImageFileConverter`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Conversion\InterventionImageFileConverter) class which converts images to other image formats using [Intervention Image](https://image.intervention.io/v2). You can add your own `FileConverter` implementations in projects or modules for any file convertions you might need.

See [convert a file to a different format](/developer_guides/files/file_manipulation/#file-conversion) for more details.

### Validation for inline-editable elemental content blocks {#elemental-validation}

Elemental content blocks now support validation when saving or publishing individual content blocks using the "three-dot" context menu in the top-right of the block.

Validation can be added to a content block using standard [Model Validation and Constraints](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/5/developer_guides/model/validation/#validation-and-constraints) by implementing a [`DataObject::validate()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject::validate()) method on a content block, or by using [Form Validation](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/5/developer_guides/forms/validation/#form-validation) where there are several options available.

### Support for `JOIN` in SQL `UPDATE` {#sql-update-join}

The [`SQLUpdate`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Queries\SQLUpdate) class now supports all of the same `JOIN` operations (using the same methods) that [`SQLSelect`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Queries\SQLSelect) does.

This is particularly helpful if you need to update columns in one table to match values from another table.

### Other new features

- `silverstripe/linkfield` now has improved accessibility support for screen readers and keyboard navigation. Focus states have also been made consistent between keyboard and mouse interaction.
- `silverstripe/graphql-devtools` contains a new `GraphQLSchemaInitTask` to help you initialise a basic GraphQL schema.
- [`GridFieldDetailForm_ItemRequest`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\GridField\GridFieldDetailForm_ItemRequest) now uses a [`PjaxResponseNegotiator`](api:SilverStripe\Control\PjaxResponseNegotiator) to handle PJAX responses for the save and publish actions. This aligns it with responses from other form submissions in the CMS.
- Primitive types inside an iterable object will now be automatically converted to relevant [`DBField`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBField) types so can be rendered in a template. This allows the use of `return ArrayList::create(['lorem', 123]);` from a [`ContentController`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\ContentController) method that is then looped over in a template.

## API changes

- Passing a non-array `$fields` argument to both [`FieldList::addFieldsToTab()`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FieldList::addFieldsToTab()) and [`FieldList::removeFieldsFromTab()`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FieldList::removeFieldsFromTab()) has been deprecated.
- The [`ViewableData::Me()`](api:SilverStripe\View\ViewableData::Me()) method has been deprecated and will be removed in a future major release. Use of `$Me` will still work in templates.

## Bug fixes

This release includes a number of bug fixes to improve a broad range of areas. Check the change logs for full details of these fixes split by module. Thank you to the community members that helped contribute these fixes as part of the release!

### Sanitisation of HTML

When you save content in a `HTMLEditorField`, the [`HTMLEditorSanitiser`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\HTMLEditor\HTMLEditorSanitiser) class is responsible for ensuring the HTML content is safe and matches the `valid_elements` and `extended_valid_elements` options you've defined.

There was a bug that resulted in `HTMLEditorSanitiser` using the 'active' `HTMLEditorConfig` instance rather than the instance which was defined for the field. In many cases this goes unnoticed because the default active instance is very permissive, and TinyMCE does a lot of this work on the client-side, but it was possible to bypass the defined allowed HTML elements by sending requests directly to the server.

This bug has been fixed, but some additional changes were required to facilitate it. See [changes to `TinyMCEConfig`](#changes-to-tinymce) for more details about those changes.

### Restore batch action removed

The "Restore" batch action was removed from the batch actions dropdown menu in the CMS as it has not functioned correctly for a long time. There is no intention at this stage to reintroduce this feature.

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->
