---
title: 5.4.0 (unreleased)
---

# 5.4.0 (unreleased)

## Overview

- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [Option to change `ClassName` column from enum to varchar](#classname-varchar)
  - [Other new features](#other-new-features)
- [API changes](#api-changes)
- [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)

## Features and enhancements

### Option to change `ClassName` column from enum to varchar {#classname-varchar}

On websites with very large database tables it can take a long time to run `dev/build`, which can be a problem when deploying changes to production. This is because the `ClassName` column is an `enum` type which requires an a `ALTER TABLE` query to be run affecting every row whenever there is a new valid value for the column. For a very rough benchmark, running an `ALTER TABLE` query on a database table of 10 million records took 28.52 seconds on a mid-range 2023 laptop, though this time will vary depending on the database and hardware being used.

This release introduces a new configuration option to change the `ClassName` column to a `varchar` type which removes the need to run `ALTER TABLE` whenever there is a new valid value.

Enabling this will result in a trade-off where the size of the database will increase by approximately 7 MB per 100,000 rows. There will also be a very slow initial `dev/build` as all of the `ClassName` columns are switched to `varchar`. To enable this, add the following configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject:
  fixed_fields:
    ClassName: DBClassNameVarchar

SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBPolymorphicForeignKey:
  composite_db:
    Class: "DBClassNameVarchar('SilverStripe\\ORM\\DataObject', ['index' => false])"
```

### Other new features

- (fill this is as features are added)

## API changes

- The class names for the `TopPage` feature in [`dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental`](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental) do not follow the correct naming convention for Silverstripe CMS. The existing classes have been deprecated and will be renamed to match the correct naming convention in a future major release.
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayLib`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayLib) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Core\ArrayLib`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\ArrayList`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\Filterable`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Filterable) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\Filterable`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\GroupedList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\GroupedList) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\GroupedList`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\Limitable`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Limitable) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\Limitable`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\ListDecorator`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ListDecorator) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\ListDecorator`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\Map`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Map) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\Map`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\PaginatedList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\PaginatedList) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\PaginatedList`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\Sortable`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Sortable) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\Sortable`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\SS_List`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\SS_List) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\List\SS_List`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\ValidationException`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ValidationException) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Core\Validation\ValidationException`
- [`SilverStripe\ORM\ValidationResult`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\ValidationResult) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Core\Validation\ValidationResult`
- [`SilverStripe\View\ArrayData`](api:SilverStripe\View\ArrayData) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\ArrayData`
- [`SilverStripe\View\ViewableData`](api:SilverStripe\View\ViewableData) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\ModelData`
- [`SilverStripe\View\ViewableData_Customised`](api:SilverStripe\View\ViewableData_Customised) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\ModelDataCustomised`
- [`SilverStripe\View\ViewableData_Debugger`](api:SilverStripe\View\ViewableData_Debugger) has been deprecated. It will be renamed to `SilverStripe\Model\ModelDataDebugger`

## Bug fixes

- (fill this is as bug fixes are added)

This release includes a number of bug fixes to improve a broad range of areas. Check the change logs for full details of these fixes split by module. Thank you to the community members that helped contribute these fixes as part of the release!

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->
