---
title: 6.0.0 (unreleased)
---

# 6.0.0 (unreleased)

## Overview

- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [Run `CanonicalURLMiddleware` in all environments by default](#url-middleware)
  - [Changes to default cache adapters](#caching)
  - [Changes to scaffolded form fields](#scaffolded-fields)
  - [`SiteTree` uses form field scaffolding](#sitetree-scaffolding)
  - [Changes to the templating/view layer](#view-layer)
  - [Other new features](#other-new-features)
- [Dependency changes](#dependency-changes)
  - [`intervention/image` has been upgraded from v2 to v3](#intervention-image)
  - [symfony dependencies have been upgraded from v6 to v7](#symfony)
- [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)
- [API changes](#api-changes)
  - [Many renamed classes](#renamed-classes)
  - [GraphQL removed from the CMS](#graphql-removed)
  - [Most extension hook methods are now protected](#hooks-protected)
  - [Strict typing for `Factory` implementations](#factory-strict-typing)
  - [General changes](#api-general)
- [Other changes](#other-changes)
  - [MySQL 5 no longer supported](#mysql-5-support)
  - [`DBDecimal` default value](#dbdecimal-default-value)
- [Full list of removed and changed API (by module, alphabetically)](#api-removed-and-changed)

## Features and enhancements

### Run `CanonicalURLMiddleware` in all environments by default {#url-middleware}

In Silverstripe CMS 5 [`CanonicalURLMiddleware`](api:SilverStripe\Control\Middleware\CanonicalURLMiddleware) only runs in production by default. This lead to issues with `fetch` and APIs behaving differently in production environments to development. Silverstripe 6.0 changes this default to run the rules in `dev`, `test`, and `live` by default.

To opt out of this change include the following in your `_config.php`

```php
use SilverStripe\Control\Middleware\CanonicalURLMiddleware;
use SilverStripe\Core\CoreKernel;

CanonicalURLMiddleware::singleton()->setEnabledEnvs([
    CoreKernel::LIVE,
]);
```

### Changes to default cache adapters {#caching}

The [`DefaultCacheFactory`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Cache\DefaultCacheFactory) used to use APCu cache by default for your webserver - but we found this cache isn't actually shared with CLI. This means flushing cache from the CLI didn't actually flush the cache your webserver was using.

What's more, the `PHPFilesAdapter` used as a fallback wasn't enabled for CLI, which resulted in having a different filesystem cache for CLI than is used for the webserver.

We've made the following changes to resolve this problem:

- The `PHPFilesAdapter` will only be used if it's available for both the webserver *and* CLI. Otherwise, `FilesystemAdapter` will be used for both.
- There is no default in-memory cache used by `DefaultCacheFactory`.
- Cache factories have been implemented for Redis, Memcached, and APCu, with a new [`InMemoryCacheFactory`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Cache\InMemoryCacheFactory) interface available for your own implementations.

We strongly encourage you to configure an appropriate in-memory cache for your use-case. See [adding an in-memory cache adapter](/developer_guides/performance/caching/#adapters) for details.

### Changes to scaffolded form fields {#scaffolded-fields}

Some of the form fields have changed when scaffolding form fields for relations.

Previously, `File`, `Image`, and `Folder` were all scaffolded using `UploadField` for `has_one` relations, and `GridField` for `has_many` and `many_many` relations.

All other models used `SearchableDropdownField` for `has_one` relations and `GridField` for `has_many` and `many_many` relations.

|Class|`has_one`|`has_many`|`many_many`|
|---|---|---|---|
|[`SiteTree`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree)|[`TreeDropdownField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeDropdownField)|[`TreeMultiselectField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeMultiselectField)|[`TreeMultiselectField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeMultiselectField)|
|[`Group`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Group)|[`TreeDropdownField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeDropdownField)|[`TreeMultiselectField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeMultiselectField)|[`TreeMultiselectField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeMultiselectField)|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|No change|[`SearchableMultiDropdownField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\SearchableMultiDropdownField)|[`SearchableMultiDropdownField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\SearchableMultiDropdownField)|
|[`File`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\File)|No change|[`UploadField`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Forms\UploadField)|[`UploadField`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Forms\UploadField)|
|[`Image`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image)|No change|[`UploadField`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Forms\UploadField)|[`UploadField`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Forms\UploadField)|
|[`Folder`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Folder)|[`TreeDropdownField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeDropdownField)|[`TreeMultiselectField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeMultiselectField)|[`TreeMultiselectField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\TreeMultiselectField)|
|[`TaxonomyTerm`](api:SilverStripe\Taxonomy)|No change|[`SearchableMultiDropdownField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\SearchableMultiDropdownField)|[`SearchableMultiDropdownField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\SearchableMultiDropdownField)|
|[`Link`](api:SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\Link)|[`LinkField`](api:SilverStripe\LinkField\Form\LinkField)|[`MultiLinkField`](api:SilverStripe\LinkField\Form\MultiLinkField)|No change|
|[`BlogCategory`](api:SilverStripe\Blog\Model\BlogCategory)|No change|[`TagField`](api:SilverStripe\TagField\TagField)|[`TagField`](api:SilverStripe\TagField\TagField)|
|[`BlogTag`](api:SilverStripe\Blog\Model\BlogTag)|No change|[`TagField`](api:SilverStripe\TagField\TagField)|[`TagField`](api:SilverStripe\TagField\TagField)|
|[`Recipient`](api:SilverStripe\UserForms\Model\Recipient)|No change|Changed which `GridfieldComponent` classes are used|Changed which `GridfieldComponent` classes are used|

### `SiteTree` uses form field scaffolding {#sitetree-scaffolding}

[`SiteTree::getCMSFields()`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree::getCMSFields()) used to create its form fields from scratch, without calling `parent::getCMSFields()`. This meant that all subclasses of `SiteTree` (i.e. all of your `Page` classes) had to explicitly define all form fields.

`SiteTree::getCMSFields()` now uses the same form field scaffolding that all other `DataObject` subclasses use.

Note that this means when you initially upgrade to Silverstripe CMS 6 you may have form fields being added to your CMS edit forms that you don't want to include, or tabs from relations that you don't want. You can use the [`scaffold_cms_fields_settings`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject->scaffold_cms_fields_settings) configuration property to change which fields are being scaffolded.

For example, if you have a database column for which you don't want content authors to see or edit the value, you can use the `ignoreFields` option to stop the form field for that column from being scaffolded:

```php
namespace App\PageTypes;

use Page;

class MyCustomPage extends Page
{
    // ...
    private static array $db = [
        'SecretToken' => 'Varchar',
    ];

    private static array $scaffold_cms_fields_settings = [
        'ignoreFields' => [
            'SecretToken',
        ],
    ];
}
```

See the [scaffolding](/developer_guides/model/scaffolding/#scaffolding-options) section for more details about using these options.

As part of your CMS 6 upgrade, you should check all of the page types in your project and in any modules you maintain to ensure the correct form fields are available in the appropriate tabs. You should also check [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) subclasses that you know get applied to pages to ensure fields aren't being scaffolded from those that you want to keep hidden.

#### What if I don't have time to upgrade all of my page types?

If you have a lot of complex page types and extensions, upgrading all of them to account for the new scaffolding might be a large task. If you want to avoid upgrading your `getCMSFields()` and `updateCMSFields()` implementations initially, you can use the `restrictRelations` and `restrictFields` scaffolding options in the `scaffold_cms_fields_settings` configuration property for your pages. You can then declare that only the fields introduced in parent classes should be scaffolded.

The below YAML configuration can be used as a base for this workaround. It will work for all page types available in commercially supported modules. If you use page types provided in third-party modules, you may need to add configuration for those as well.

> [!WARNING]
> Note that this is explicitly intended as a temporary workaround, so that you can focus on other areas of the upgrade first, and come back to your page form fields later.
>
> As more community modules are upgraded to account for form field scaffolding in their page types and extension classes, you may
> need to add more fields to this list. To avoid having to continuously update these lists it's recommended that you take the time
> to update your `getCMSFields()` and `updateCMSFields()` implementations as soon as you have time to do so.

<details>
<summary>Click to see the YAML configuration snippet</summary>

```yml
SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree:
  scaffold_cms_fields_settings:
    restrictRelations:
      # This will stop all has_many and many_many relations from being
      # scaffolded except for new relations which are added to this list
      - 'ThisRelationDoesntExist'
    restrictFields:
      # These fields are scaffolded from SiteTree, and are the bare minimum
      # fields that we need to be scaffolded for all page types
      - 'Title'
      - 'MenuTitle'
      - 'URLSegment'
      - 'Content'

SilverStripe\CMS\Model\VirtualPage:
  scaffold_cms_fields_settings:
    restrictFields:
      - 'CopyContentFrom'

SilverStripe\CMS\Model\RedirectorPage:
  scaffold_cms_fields_settings:
    restrictFields:
      - 'ExternalURL'
      - 'LinkTo'
      - 'LinkToFile'

SilverStripe\Blog\Model\BlogPost:
  scaffold_cms_fields_settings:
    restrictRelations:
      - 'Categories'
      - 'Tags'
    restrictFields:
      - 'Summary'
      - 'FeaturedImage'
      - 'PublishDate'

SilverStripe\IFrame\IFramePage:
  scaffold_cms_fields_settings:
    restrictFields:
      - 'ForceProtocol'
      - 'IFrameURL'
      - 'IFrameTitle'
      - 'AutoHeight'
      - 'AutoWidth'
      - 'FixedHeight'
      - 'FixedWidth'
      - 'BottomContent'
      - 'AlternateContent'

SilverStripe\UserForms\Model\UserDefinedForm:
  scaffold_cms_fields_settings:
    restrictRelations:
      - 'EmailRecipients'
```

</details>

### Changes to the templating/view layer {#view-layer}

Note that the `SilverStripe\View\ViewableData` class has been renamed to [`SilverStripe\Model\ModelData`](api:SilverStripe\Model\ModelData). We will refer to it as `ModelData` in the rest of these change logs.

See [many renamed classes](#renamed-classes) for more information about this change.

#### Strong typing for `ModelData` and `DBField`

Many of the properties and methods in `ModelData`, [`DBField`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBField), and their immediate subclasses have been given strong typehints. Previously, these only had typehints in the PHPDoc which meant that any arbitrary values could be assigned or returned.

Most of the strong types are either identical to the old PHPDoc types, or match what was already actually being assigned to, passed into, and returned from those APIs.

In some cases, where a string was expected but sometimes `null` was being used, we have explicitly strongly typed the API to `string`. This matches [similar changes PHP made in PHP 8.1](https://php.watch/versions/8.1/internal-func-non-nullable-null-deprecation) and will help avoid passing `null` values in to functions that expect a string.

The one change we specifically want to call out is for [`ModelData::obj()`](api:SilverStripe\Model\ModelData::obj()). This method will now explicitly return `null` if there is no field, property, method, etc to represent the field you're trying to get an object for. This is a change from the old behaviour, where an empty `DBField` instance would be returned even though there's no way for any non-null value to be available for that field.

See the [full list of removed and changed API](#api-removed-and-changed) to see all of the API with updated typing.

### Other new features and small changes {#other-new-features}

- Native indexed PHP arrays can now be passed into templates and iterated over with `<% loop $MyArray %>`. Under the hood they are wrapped in [`ArrayList`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\ArrayList), so you can get the count using `$Count` and use `<% if $ArrayList %>` as a shortcut for `<% if $ArrayList.Count %>`. Other functionality from `ArrayList` such as filtering and sorting cannot be used on arrays since they don't have keys to filter or sort against.
- Modules no longer need to have a root level `_config.php` or `_config` directory to be recognised as a Silverstripe CMS module. They will now be recognised as a module if they have a `composer.json` file with a `type` of `silverstripe-vendormodule` or `silverstripe-theme`.
- A new [`DataObject::getCMSEditLink()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject::getCMSEditLink()) method has been added, which returns `null` by default. This provides more consistency for that method which has previously been inconsistently applied to various subclasses of `DataObject`. See [managing records](/developer_guides/model/managing_records/#getting-an-edit-link) for more details about providing sane values for this method in your own subclasses.
- The `CMSEditLink()` method on many `DataObject` subclasses has been renamed to `getCMSEditLink()`.

## Dependency changes

### `intervention/image` has been upgraded from v2 to v3 {#intervention-image}

We've upgraded from `intervention/image` v2 to v3. One of the main improvements included in this upgrade is full support for animated GIFs.

If you are directly interacting with APIs from `intervention/image` in your project or module you should check out [their upgrade guide](https://image.intervention.io/v3/introduction/upgrade).

### Symfony dependencies have been upgraded from v6 to v7 {#symfony}

We've upgraded the various Symfony dependencies from v6 to v7.

#### Animated vs still images {#intervention-image-animations}

Manipulating animated images takes longer, and results in a larger filesize.

Because of this, the [`ThumbnailGenerator`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Model\ThumbnailGenerator) will provide still images as thumbnails for animated gifs by default. You can change that for a given instance of `ThumbnailGenerator` by passing `true` to the [`setAllowsAnimation()`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Model\ThumbnailGenerator::setAllowsAnimation()) method. For example, to allow animated thumbnails for `UploadField`:

```yml
---
After: '#assetadminthumbnails'
---
SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector:
  SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Model\ThumbnailGenerator.assetadmin:
    properties:
      AllowsAnimation: true
```

The [`Image::PreviewLink()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image::PreviewLink()) method also doesn't allow an animated result by default. This is used in the "Files" admin section, and anywhere you can choose an existing image such as `UploadField` and the WYSIWYG file modals.

You can allow animated previews by setting [`Image.allow_animated_preview`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image->allow_animated_preview) configuration property to `true`:

```yml
SilverStripe\Assets\Image:
  allow_animated_preview: true
```

You can disable the ability to create animated variants globally by setting `decodeAnimation` to `false` in the `Intervention\Image\ImageManager`'s constructor:

```yml
SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector:
  Intervention\Image\ImageManager:
    constructor:
      decodeAnimation: false
```

You can also toggle that configuration setting on and off for a given image instance, or create a variant from your image which uses a specific frame of animation - see [animated images](/developer_guides/files/images/#animated-images) for details.

#### Using GD or Imagick {#intervention-image-driver}

One of the changes that comes as a result of this upgrade is a change in how you configure which manipulation driver (GD or Imagick) to use.

To facilitate upgrades and to ensure we are providing optimal defaults out of the box, if you have the [imagick PHP extension](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.imagick.php) installed, it will be used as the driver for `intervention/image` by default. If you don't, the assumption is that you have the [GD PHP extension](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.image.php) installed, and it will be used instead.

See [changing the manipulation driver](/developer_guides/files/images/#intervention-image-driver) for the new configuration for swapping the driver used by `intervention/image`.

#### New API {#intervention-image-new-api}

The following new methods have been added to facilitate this upgrade:

|Method name|Where the method was added|
|---|---|
|`getIsAnimated()`|[`AssetContainer::getIsAnimated()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Storage\AssetContainer::getIsAnimated()), [`ImageManipulation::getIsAnimated()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\ImageManipulation::getIsAnimated()) (and therefore `DBFile`, `File`, and their subclasses), [`Image_Backend::getIsAnimated()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image_Backend::getIsAnimated()), [`InterventionBackend::getIsAnimated()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\InterventionBackend::getIsAnimated())|
|`RemoveAnimation()`|[`ImageManipulation::RemoveAnimation()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\ImageManipulation::RemoveAnimation()) (and therefore `DBFile`, `File`, and their subclasses), [`Image_Backend::removeAnimation()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image_Backend::removeAnimation()), [`InterventionBackend::removeAnimation()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\InterventionBackend::removeAnimation())|
|`getAllowsAnimationInManipulations()`|[`Image_Backend::getAllowsAnimationInManipulations()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image_Backend::getAllowsAnimationInManipulations()), [`InterventionBackend::getAllowsAnimationInManipulations()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\InterventionBackend::getAllowsAnimationInManipulations())|
|`setAllowsAnimationInManipulations()`|[`Image_Backend::setAllowsAnimationInManipulations()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image_Backend::setAllowsAnimationInManipulations()), [`InterventionBackend::setAllowsAnimationInManipulations()`](api:SilverStripe\Assets\InterventionBackend::setAllowsAnimationInManipulations())|
|`getAllowsAnimation()`|[`ThumbnailGenerator::getAllowsAnimation()`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Model\ThumbnailGenerator::getAllowsAnimation())|
|`setAllowsAnimation()`|[`ThumbnailGenerator::setAllowsAnimation()`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Model\ThumbnailGenerator::setAllowsAnimation())|

## Bug fixes

This release includes a number of bug fixes to improve a broad range of areas. Check the change logs for full details of these fixes split by module. Thank you to the community members that helped contribute these fixes as part of the release!

## API changes

### Many renamed classes {#renamed-classes}

There are a lot of classes which were in the `SilverStripe\ORM` namespace and a few in the `SilverStripe\View` namespace that simply don't belong there.

We've moved many of these into more suitable namespaces, and in a few cases have taken the opportunity to rename the class to something more appropriate. You will need to update any references to the old Fully Qualified Class Names to use the new names and namespaces instead.

Note that the change from `ViewableData` to `ModelData` specifically was made to improve the separation between the model layer and the view layer. It didn't make much sense for a class called `ViewableData` to be the superclass for all of our model types. The new name better reflects the purpose of this class as the base class for models.

|Old FQCN|New FQCN|
|---|---|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayLib`|[`SilverStripe\Core\ArrayLib`](api:SilverStripe\Core\ArrayLib)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\ArrayList`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\ArrayList`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\ArrayList)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\Filterable`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\Filterable`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\Filterable)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\GroupedList`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\GroupedList`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\GroupedList)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\Limitable`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\Limitable`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\Limitable)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\ListDecorator`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\ListDecorator`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\ListDecorator)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\Map`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\Map`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\Map)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\PaginatedList`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\PaginatedList`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\PaginatedList)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\Sortable`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\Sortable`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\Sortable)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\SS_List`|[`SilverStripe\Model\List\SS_List`](api:SilverStripe\Model\List\SS_List)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\ValidationException`|[`SilverStripe\Core\Validation\ValidationException`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Validation\ValidationException)|
|`SilverStripe\ORM\ValidationResult`|[`SilverStripe\Core\Validation\ValidationResult`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Validation\ValidationResult)|
|`SilverStripe\View\ArrayData`|[`SilverStripe\Model\ArrayData`](api:SilverStripe\Model\ArrayData)|
|`SilverStripe\View\ViewableData`|[`SilverStripe\Model\ModelData`](api:SilverStripe\Model\ModelData)|
|`SilverStripe\View\ViewableData_Customised`|[`SilverStripe\Model\ModelDataCustomised`](api:SilverStripe\Model\ModelDataCustomised)|
|`SilverStripe\View\ViewableData_Debugger`|[`SilverStripe\Model\ModelDataDebugger`](api:SilverStripe\Model\ModelDataDebugger)|

### GraphQL removed from the CMS {#graphql-removed}

> [!INFO] If you need to use GraphQL in your project for public-facing frontend schemas, you can still install and use the [`silverstripe/graphql`](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql) module.

GraphQL has been removed from the admin section of the CMS and is no longer installed when creating a new project using [`silverstripe/installer`](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-installer), or an existing project that uses [`silverstripe/recipe-cms`](https://github.com/silverstripe/recipe-cms). All existing functionality in the CMS that previously relied on GraphQL has been migrated to use regular Silverstripe CMS controllers instead.

Any customisations made to the `admin` GraphQL schema will no longer work. There are extension hooks available on the new controller endpoints for read operations, for example [`AssetAdminOpen::apiRead()`](api:SilverStripe\AssetAdmin\Controller\AssetAdminOpen::apiRead()) that allow you to customise the JSON data returned.

PHP code such as resolvers that were in [`silverstripe/asset-admin`](http://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin), [`silverstripe/cms`](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms) and [`silverstripe/versioned`](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned) have been move to the [`silverstripe/graphql`](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql) module and have had their namespace updated. The GraphQL yml config for the versioned module has also been copied over as that was previously enabled by default on all schemas. The GraphQL YAML configuration for the `silverstripe/asset-admin` and `silverstripe/cms` modules has not been moved as as that was only enabled on the admin schema.

If your project does not have any custom GraphQL, after upgrading you may still have the old `.graphql-generated` and `public/_graphql` folders in your project. You can safely remove these folders.

### Most extension hook methods are now protected {#hooks-protected}

Core implementations of most extension hooks such as `updateCMSFields()` now have protected visibility. Formerly they had public visibility which meant they could be called directly which was not how they were intended to be used. Extension hook implementations are still able to be declared public in project code, though it is recommended that all extension hook methods are declared protected in project code to follow best practice.

### Changes to some extension hook names {#hooks-renamed}

In order to better align the codebase in Silverstripe CMS with best practices, the following extension hook methods have changed name:

|class that defined the hook|old name|new name|
|---|---|---|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`afterMemberLoggedIn`|`onAfterMemberLoggedIn`|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`afterMemberLoggedOut`|`onAfterMemberLoggedOut`|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`authenticationFailed`|`onAuthenticationFailed`|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`authenticationFailedUnknownUser`|`onAuthenticationFailedUnknownUser`|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`authenticationSucceeded`|`onAuthenticationSucceeded`|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`beforeMemberLoggedIn`|`onBeforeMemberLoggedIn`|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`beforeMemberLoggedOut`|`onBeforeMemberLoggedOut`|
|[`LeftAndMain`](api:SilverStripe\Admin\LeftAndMain)|`init`|`onInit`|
|[`DataObject`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject)|`flushCache`|`onFlushCache`|
|[`LostPasswordHandler`](api:SilverStripe\Security\MemberAuthenticator\LostPasswordHandler)|`forgotPassword`|`onForgotPassword`|
|[`ErrorPage`](api:SilverStripe\ErrorPage\ErrorPage)|`getDefaultRecords`|`updateDefaultRecords`|
|[`SiteTree`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree)|`MetaComponents`|`updateMetaComponents`|
|[`SiteTree`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree)|`MetaTags`|`updateMetaTags`|
|[`DataObject`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject)|`populateDefaults`|`onAfterPopulateDefaults`|
|[`Member`](api:SilverStripe\Security\Member)|`registerFailedLogin`|`onRegisterFailedLogin`|
|[`DataObject`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject)|`requireDefaultRecords`|`onRequireDefaultRecords`|
|[`DataObject`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject)|`validate`|`updateValidate`|

If you have implemented any of those methods in an [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) subclass, you will need to rename it for it to continue working.

### Strict typing for `Factory` implementations {#factory-strict-typing}

The [`Factory::create()`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Factory::create()) method now has strict typehinting. The first argument must be a string, and either `null` or an object must be returned.

One consequence of this is that you can no longer directly pass an instantiated anonymous class object into [`Injector::load()`](SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector::load()). Instead, you need to get the class name using [`get_class()`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.get-class.php) and pass that in as the class.

```php
use App\ClassToReplace;
use SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector;

// Use `get_class()` to get the class name for your anonymous class
$replacementClass = get_class(new class () {
    private string $property;

    public function __construct(string $value = null)
    {
        $this->property = $value;
    }
});

Injector::inst()->load([
    ClassToReplace::class => [
        'class' => $replacementClass,
    ],
]);
```

### General changes {#api-general}

- [`DataObject::write()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject::write()) has a new boolean `$skipValidation` parameter. This can be useful for scenarios where you want to automatically create a new record with no data initially without restricting how developers can set up their validation rules.
- [`FieldList`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FieldList) is now strongly typed. Methods that previously allowed any iterable variables to be passed, namely [`FieldList::addFieldsToTab()`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FieldList::addFieldsToTab()) and [`FieldList::removeFieldsFromTab()`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FieldList::removeFieldsFromTab()), now require an array to be passed instead.
- [`BaseElement::getDescription()`](api:DNADesign\Elemental\Models\BaseElement::getDescription()) has been removed. If you had implemented this method in your custom elemental blocks, either set the [`description`](api:DNADesign\Elemental\Models\BaseElement->description) configuration property or override the [`getTypeNice()`](api:DNADesign\Elemental\Models\BaseElement::getTypeNice()) method.
- [`DataExtension`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataExtension), [`SiteTreeExtension`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTreeExtension), and [`LeftAndMainExtension`](api:SilverStripe\Admin\LeftAndMainExtension) have been removed. If you subclass any of these classes, you must now subclass [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) instead.

## Other changes

### MySQL 5 no longer supported {#mysql-5-support}

MySQL 5.6 and 5.7 are no longer supported. The minimum supported version is MySQL 8.0. We support and test against against the latest LTS releases of MySQL and MariaDB.

### `DBDecimal` default value {#dbdecimal-default-value}

Previously if an invalid default value was provided for a [`DBDecimal`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBDecimal) database column, it would silently set the defalt value to `0`. This will now throw an exception instead, so that you're aware your configured value is invalid and can correct it.

### Full list of removed and changed API (by module, alphabetically) {#api-removed-and-changed}

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->
